# Chapter 12: "Only Human" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Three years and seven months AV**  
**Alliance Embassy Station, Sol**

Rylee Jackson woke, and groaned. _Talamay_ must have been stronger than it had
tasted.

She groaned even louder when the previous night's conversation came back to
her, and buried her face in her pillow for a second, then rolled over and look
up at _Pandora_'s wing, flung over her cot like a protective lover's arm.

She spoke the word that heralded a bad start to any day: "Shit."

**Civilian Trade Station 1039: "Infinity Awaits"**

Fear was a sickly sensation in Kttrvk's long throat as he read the message
again to be certain of its content.

He read it a third time, just in case.

When a fourth reading still produced no miraculous change in its content, he
concluded that its content must therefore be real, and set about writing a
reply.

It was a simple reply:

"_Sir,_

_As I explained in my previous letter, the trade route you have designated for
our shipment is currently the target of Hunter raids. Four more vesselss have
been hit since I sent that letter, all comparatively small: A freighter the
size of the_ Nkvcqtz _will be a target they cannot resist._

_Our cargo of mineral ores is non-perishable and will come to no harm should
we take the slightly longer route that I suggested. I appreciate that the
client expects prompt delivery, but I feel certain that they would prefer the
shipment arrive slightly delayed, than never arrive at all because the
freighter carrying it was raided by Hunters and the personnel_ **and
children** _on board, devoured._

_I object in the strongest possible terms to these orders, and request - again
- that you authorise us to take the longer route._

_-Shipmaster Kttrvk._

He sent it, and the message was scooped up by a handler program, to be updated
onto the galactic network in the next regular synchronization, and from there
to the desk of his supervisor.

He knew in his bones, however, that the appeal was futile.

**Cimbrean**

Jennifer Delaney. Mid-twenties, entirely out of fucks to give about being a
pirate queen, colonial governor or immortal, but not letting go of the space-
babe part. Currently wearing fatigues, army boots and a thick black woollen
jumper, and contemplating the bar of actual _chocolate_ on the table in front
of her, waiting for the alarm to ring or the spaceship to land or whatever
else would interrupt her attempt to enjoy it.

She was also reflecting that, while showing up completely arse-naked and
demanding to be clothed wouldn't have been her first choice in ice-breakers -
wouldn't even have made the top hundred - it had undeniably worked. Apparently
the soldiers respected a woman who didn't give two shits for embarrassment and
just asked for a pair of pants. She would have expected to be on the receiving
end of a lot of lecherous jokes and sly side-of-the-eye stares, but in fact
they were, on the whole, treating her with deference and respect.

"Tastes better if you eat it with your mouth, love."

Somewhere deep inside her, Old Jen was impressed and a little scared by the
way that she didn't jump, just turned in her seat to quickly assess whether
the voice that had snuck up on her was a threat. Captain Owen Powell gave her
a winning smile full of Yorkshire arrogance, and she relaxed a bit.

"Just… enjoying the moment." she said. "And don't call me "love"."

Powell nodded. "Aye, sorry. Force of habit. I'd ask if I can come in, but this
is my office, so…"

He entered and sat down on the other stool, on the opposite side of the desk.
"So, are you going to eat that?"

"Promise me nothing's going to start exploding if I do?"

She wasn't sure what she had expected Powell's reaction to be: a laugh, maybe,
or a joke. Not an understanding look in his eye. "Wish I could." he said.
"You'd best eat it fast, enjoy it while you can. In the army they trained us
to brew a cup of tea every chance we get, because you never know when the next
one's going to show up."

Jen breathed a little half-laugh. "That's so fecking English…" she said.

Powell snorted. "Ten thousand lightyears from home and the Irish are still
being fookin' Irish."

That got a genuine laugh. "Alright, fine. I'll eat the fecking thing." Jen
conceded, and promptly made good on that promise.

_Chocolate_. **Fuck** yeah.

**Mount Hope Cemetery, San Diego**

"May her soul, and the souls of all the faithful departed through the mercy of
God, rest in peace."

The solemn "_Amen_" which followed that petition was joined by all bar one of
the graveside mourners. The priest closed his book, bowed solemnly, and turned
away, leaving only the small knot of family and friends.

It was a good headstone, understated and handsome: just the name "Terri Boone"
flanked by carved lilies, her dates of birth and death, and the quote "_A
loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge._" on round-topped blue slate.

"You're not a praying man, Mister Jenkins?"

"I'm not, detective. Let's… just leave it at that."

"Fair enough."

Gabriel Ares shuffled his feet and exhaled, feeling in his bones that the
occasion should have really warranted something other than a glorious sunny
day.

"Do you come to the funerals of all your cases?" Jenkins asked him.

"Not all, no. Just the ones that really get to me. You know, the stupid kid
who got caught up in gang violence, or the young mother who died of a bleed on
the brain after her husband hit her for the hundredth time… The streetwise P.
I. who I kind of feel like I could have helped if I'd only listened."

"Are you listening now?"

Jenkins was a good two heads taller than the diminutive Hispanic homicide cop,
who looked up at him curiously.

"Listening to… who, now?" He asked.

"Ravi Singh, for one."

"How do you…? Right, you had the login details."

"I do, yeah. Downloaded the lot. You HAVE read it all?"

"Three times." Ares told him. "She makes a… compelling case. But come on,
secret aliens murdering people in San Diego?"

"What, as opposed to alien monsters on TV getting the shit kicked out of them
by hockey players? As opposed to alien embassies orbiting the moon?"

"I know!" Ares exclaimed. A few startled gasps and glances from the other
mourners moderated his volume. "I know. I agree. You're preaching to the
choir, _compañero_. But I have to answer to people, and even if they were
persuaded, which they're not, there's this little thing called 'Jurisdiction'
biting me in the _culo_."

"What about the FBI?"

"The feds?" Gabriel made a scornful noise through his nose. "The _pendejo_ I
spoke to said he'd put me through to Special Agent Mulder and then hung up.
They've got enough to worry about without alien conspiracy theories. People
didn't stop murdering each other just because there's a couple of alien space
stations up there."

"Need a hand?"

"You'd go all the way to New Jersey?"

"If it got us to the bottom of this, I'd even go back into space." Jenkins
told him, firmly. "I want these fuckers to fry, Ares."

The detective stared at the headstone for a long while, and then shook his
head. "I'm not… You realise I can't authorise that, right?Not officially. This
is a police matter, I can't bring in civilians to interrogate a witness."

"That wouldn't be by-the-book, huh?"

"_Lo tienes_."

"Does going by the book always work?"

"No. But going against it NEVER works, Jenkins, to hell with what cop shows
and movie writers think."

"So you won't help me."

"Can't." Ares corrected.

They stood in silence for a while. Most of the mourners paid their final
respects and departed.

"Of course…" Jenkins mused. "Seeing as New Jersey is outside of your
jurisdiction, if I were to go talk with this guy, it's not like you could
arrest me for it anyway."

Ares half-laughed and half-huffed. "If having a conversation with some guy in
New Jersey was illegal then I could arrest you right now for planning to
commit an offense." he said. "_IF_," he added, turning to look Jenkins right
in the eye "having a conversation with some guy in New Jersey was illegal."

They considered each other's expressions for a moment, and then both men stuck
out their hands to be shaken at the same time.

"I'll let you know if I think of anything that could be useful to your
investigation, Detective Ares."

"I'd appreciate that, Mr. Jenkins. _Buena suerte._"

**Civilian Trade Station 1039: "Infinity Awaits"**

"_Shipmaster Kttrvk,_

"_You have received your orders. As per your contract with the corporation,
failure to follow your assigned route is punishable by demotion, confiscation
of your ship and fines up to 5% of the value of the cargo per [day] of late
delivery_"

"_-Ikktik, Deputy Shipping Executive_"

Kttrvk knew at that exact moment that nobody in the corporation even bothered
to read their mail.

He weighed up the possibility of refusing and then counter-suing the
corporation for reckless endangerment of his and his family's lives when they
took action against him. A fair court would surely come down on his side.

But of course, Long Stars Shipping would never see the inside of a _fair_
court in a case like this, would they? They owned the judges, they could
afford the best lawyers, they lobbied for the laws that worked in their
favour.

For long minutes he sat, thinking, while his mate Ikkzziki slumbered, rotund
with what would be their fourth child.

There was only one possible course of action.

**Alliance Embassy Station, Sol**

"Good morning, Rylee."

Rylee flinched. She knew that the voice she heard wasn't exactly Niral so much
as a computer simulation of what Niral's voice might sound like if she was
speaking English, cunningly conveyed to her ears by harmonic trickery in a way
that completely overruled the original voice, but the simulation was totally
consistent in giving Niral an identifiable voice.

"…Niral! Hey. Good morning."

"A very good morning." Niral's ears were flattened sideways. The effect looked
either mischievous or smug to Rylee. Her tall posture, shoulders thrown back
and head held high, suggested the latter.

"Oh! You guys, uh…?"

"That we most certainly did." The Gaoian purred. "The first of many I hope,
before we're certain I'm with cub."

"That's umm… Great. I'm happy for you." Rylee found she couldn't meet the
Sister's gaze. She was surprised when Niral issued a low keening sound and
took her hands.

"Rylee, are you all right?"

"I made a complete ass of myself last night, didn't I?"

"…A backside? Oh! Um… I don't know, did you?"

"That's usually what we call it when somebody makes someone else feel
uncomfortable by confessing to being… _interested_ in them. And all the rest.
I'm sorry Niral, I was drunk, I wasn't thinking straight and I ran off at the
mouth."

Niral keened softly again and hugged her. Presumably she was hugging quite
hard by Gaoian standards, but to Rylee the effect was of being gently hugged
by an anorexic teenager - under all that fur, the Gaoian's body was small,
wiry, feather-light and frail. "I don't think I understand this 'drunk'
thing." Niral told her. "But I wasn't drunk last night, and I still say you're
my friend."

"You're not upset?"

"If I'm going to have alien friends, I need to be okay with them behaving in
alien ways." Niral replied, stroking Rylee's hair. "I'm not upset."

Rylee broke the hug very gently, and wiped away a grateful tear, pulling
herself together. "Oh, I needed to hear that." she smiled, then a thought
struck her. "Shit, you didn't tell Goruu what I said, did you?"

Niral tittered a Gaoian giggle. "We were too busy." she teased. "But… no, I
wouldn't. Not if you don't want him to know."

"I don't." Rylee said firmly.

There was a moment of comfortable silence, faintly amused on Niral's part.
Then she looked up at the space-plane wing that Rylee had been sleeping under.

"So this is _Pandora_?"

"This is _Pandora_."

"Does the name mean anything special? The first Gaoian warp craft was named
_Tiritya_, after the first Mother-Supreme, who united the females of all clans
into one clan."

Rylee smiled. "Pandora was the first woman, according to Greek mythology."

"The… how can there be a first woman? And what's a Greek? One of your clans?"

"Yeah, sort of. Mythology means… kind of, fanciful stories, an entertaining
way of getting points across using fiction. It doesn't always have to be
scientifically accurate. Besides, they didn't really understand evolution by
natural selection back in ancient Greece. It's a very old story."

"Oh. So, your first warp craft is named to honour the first female and not the
first male?" The idea seemed to have Niral's approval, and not for the first
time Rylee was struck by the notion that Gaoian females were maybe a bit
sexist.

"Well, she was more than just the first woman." Rylee said, beginning to pack
up her cot and stow it away in the ship's small cargo compartment. "She was a
curious soul who opened a box in which Zeus, the father of the gods, had
sealed away all the evils and negativity of mankind. When they all flew away
to plague humanity, the only thing that was left behind was hope, which she
kept."

She glanced at Niral. "It's all supposed to be metaphorical." she clarified.

"I guessed as much. But what was hope doing in a box full of evil things?"

"Hope can't exist without evil." Rylee said. She rubbed her hand fondly along
the fuselage of the modern _Pandora_. "Just like up can't exist without down,
or how fast only exists relative to slow."

"And I suppose your species is in a sort of box…" Niral mused.

"Exactly. I choose to believe that _Pandora_ here is our promise that when the
box is opened, we'll be a force for hope and positivity in the galaxy, rather
than a plague of evils."

Niral allowed the human a few seconds of distant misty-eyed happiness. "I'm
sure you will be." She said.

**Cimbrean**

"So, how much do you know about what's been going on back home?"

Jennifer Delaney, mid-twenties, space-babe with a mouthful of the first
chocolate she'd tasted in _years_, regretfully swallowed it.

"Not much." She confessed. "The alien news only covered the big things: the
Hunters attacked Vancouver?" when Powell nodded, she continued. "Then there's
a fecking big force-field, we have warp travel now… That's about it. I know
that our ambassador to the Dominion is called Doctor Anees Hussein because he
wrote me a letter, and he hinted that we're maybe wanting to play both sides
to our advantage, but other than that, I'm pretty well in the dark."

"Right. Well, it's mostly business as usual." Powell said. "The usual
political gobshites, same sports, same celebrity gossip, same bullshit in the
Middle East. The Russians are still fookin' crazy, the Chinese still have a
stick up their arses, the Yanks are still fookin' reckless and there's still a
Marvel movie three times a year like fookin' clockwork."

"Nothing's changed at all?"

"I didn't say that. NASA and the European Space Agency merged to form the
North Atlantic Space Agency, the Chinese, Russians and Japanese are all
stepping up their space programs, as are the South Americans and the
Australians, and there's even the Pan-Africa Space Organisation now. I think
they're mostly looking at trying to build space elevators, which is easier at
the equator or something."

He sniffed. "A whole bunch of private companies are pushing into space as fast
as they can, too. BAE, Virgin, Mitsubishi, Shenyang, Red Bull…"

"_Red Bull?!_"

"Dont ask. And the cutting edge military technology is… fook me sideways, if
you were cleared to know about half of it, you'd shit your new pants."

"How much AM I cleared to know about?"

"Right, so we took a look at the way business is done out here and promptly
said "fook that", right? Giant fookin' spaceships with giant fookin' guns and
even gianter fookin' armour plates pounding the living shite out of each other
at spittin' distance. They've got missiles and mines nowadays - apparently
they picked that trick up off one of us - but their whole approach is pretty
bloody direct."

"Oh. Really? One of, um, us?"

"Yep. Like to get my hands on that wanker, whoever he was. Give him a lesson
in keeping his fookin' mouth shut." Powell's tone was light, but he had a
dangerous look in his eye that reminded her a bit of Adrian, though not in a
happy way.

Jen suddenly became very grateful for the practice she'd had in the art of
lying, and bobbled her head in a way that could mean anything but didn't
really meaning anything _specific_. Powell apparently took it agreeably.

"Anyway," he continued "the ships we're putting up - or, at least, the
Lockheed ones that NATO are buying - are built around _not_ that. Long-range
weaponry, evasive maneuvers, fookloads of electronic warfare. We use
capacitors full of reserve power rather than big reactors, so our ships are
small and agile little buggers, built to hit and fade, rip things a new one in
the opening seconds, then jump out, recharge, come back and do it again."

"Our weapons stack up to theirs?" Jen asked. That part was genuine news. She'd
known for some time that most weapons that she might find pointed at her were
nowhere near as deadly as their equivalent on Earth, but she had always
assumed that with thousands of years of science behind them, spaceship guns
would be far in advance of anything humanity had yet invented.

"In theory." Powell said, clearly unhappy about not being able to give a more
emphatically positive answer. "Because all their stuff's based around railguns
and plasma cannons, our own weapons, which are neither of those things, should
be something they don't know how to handle. Their shields are tuned to stop
slow-firing high-energy projectiles traveling at like, one percent of
lightspeed, and the armour's designed for heat dissipation: it's all ceramic
tiles, fragile as balls."

"So, if we fire a howitzer at them or something?" Jen asked him, latching on
to the first "big gun" word she could think of.

"I see what you're thinking, but nah. It'd just explode against the shields:
too slow-firing. But in theory, if we just chuck a load of lower-energy
projectiles at them it'll overwhelm the shields and smash the armour. See?"

"I'll… have to take your word on all of that."

Powell smiled. "I take it you're not a military hardware geek?

"Not really."

"Well, I am, and the Lockheed TS-101 gives me a hell of a chubby."

"Charming." she deadpanned, trying to give the impression that there were more
important matters on her mind than the state of his junk. It seemed to work,
because Powell cleared his throat and his smile faded.

"Right. Sorry." He scratched his upper lip with his thumb, lips pursed in
thought. "Anyway, back on topic. There's… a lot of legal questions about
Cimbrean here."

"Like what?" Jen asked, surprised. She had assumed that all of those questions
would have been sorted out long before the soldiers came here.

Powell ticked each question off on his fingers as he asked them. "Is this a
colony of any one nation? And if so, which one? Or is it its own nation? in
which case are you going to have a constitution, are you going to be a
democracy? What's your immigration policy? What are you going to export and
import? What's the customs policy on things like, say, seeds and foodstuffs,
because from what I'm told our native Terran species would go through this lot
-" he waved an arm, expansively indicating the ecosystem of an entire planet
"-like vindaloo through a short grandma."

"There are questions about you, too." he added, looking her in the eye. "You
were given the job because you were here and because we heard you'd built
something, but seeing as what you apparently built is a battlefield, do you
even want it any more? Do you want to go home to Earth? Because the next time
Kirk swings by here he'll be able to send you back, no problem. Do you want to
stay on as governor, or hand the job off to somebody else?"

Jen's brow creased as she considered this. "I hadn't even thought of _any_ of
those questions." she confessed. "How much of being a colonial governor would
be like that? Desk work, lawmaking, thinking about all the fiddly little
details and all that?" She asked.

"Fookin' near all of it, I'd imagine." Powell said.

"Then I want to be replaced as soon as possible." Jen said, firmly. There was
no _way_ she could go back to a job that even looked and smelled faintly like
I. T., not after her experiences out here.

"You sure? Could be a nice desk. Big salary. Power, fame and influence?"

For once, Old Jen and New Jen were in total agreement. "I'd rather just be a
space-babe." She demurred, her voice completely full of resolve.

Powell nodded approvingly. "Good for you."

**Brick, New Jersey.**

Ravi Singh's apartment wasn't hard to find. In a building of cheap wooden
doors, his was the solid, expensive one with three locks and a camera above
it.

The response to Kevin's knock wasn't a querying "who's there?" or a friendly
"Hello?", but a moment of wary silence, and then:

"Who are you?"

Kevin held his tattoo up towards the camera. "Not one of _them_." he asserted.

He waited patiently throughout the long consideration that followed, and then
the undoing of three locks.

After a few more thumps, there was a buzz, and the door opened… revealing
another door.

"Uhmmm…"

"Step inside." Singh instructed, his voice muffled through the door.

Kevin paused, shrugged, then complied. The space between the two doors
contained nothing except an almost absonant magnetic lock with a keypad, and a
shelf on which a metal detector wand was charging.

"Run the wand over your scalp." Singh insisted.

Kevin Jenkins found that the limits of his patience were being approached, but
he sighed and did so, completely bemused as to what he could be looking for.

Singh wasn't satisfied until the wand had gone over his whole cranium twice,
and over the bald patch where his translation implant had once been a good
three times, before finally there was a beep from the magnetic lock and the
inner door swung open.

Kevin wasn't sure what he expected from the interior of the apartment. After
the extravagant security and clear paranoia, he had expected a gust of stench
and a study in dingy squalor inhabited by an emaciated neurotic disaster of a
man. In fact, the apartment was clean and tidy, decorated in light and airy
cream and a warm maroon.

Ravi Singh himself was similarly clean, dressed in jeans and a white shirt,
but the bags under his eyes were exactly in keeping with the suspicious
reception: he had the face and body language of a man for whom sleep had long
since ceased to be anything other than sporadic, shallow and brief.

He welcomed Kevin into his apartment with a surprisingly warm handshake given
his apparent exhaustion and the paranoia of the previous few minutes, then
glanced out of the front door, and shut and locked both.

"So. What's your name, mister not-one-of-them?" he asked. "Can I offer you a
cup of tea?"

"I'm more of a coffee man, myself…" Kevin said.

"Of course. How do you take it?"

"Uh, black, strong and sweet, please. And my name's Kevin, Kevin Jenkins."

"Oh?" Singh arched an eyebrow as he busied himself with a steel and glass
cafetiere. "Well, this _is_ an honour. The Butterfly himself. Please, sit
down."

Kevin did so, conscious that his street clothes were a good deal shabbier than
the apparent recluse's black leather couch. "Butterfly?"

"You've surely heard the term 'Butterfly effect'? From chaos theory. The
notion of a little insect in a field in France flapping his wings and several
months later that little eddy has grown into quite the mighty storm and
_poof!_ There goes half of Bangladesh." Singh smiled grimly, a distinctive
closed-lipped smile that Kevin recognised immediately as that of a fellow
abductee. You learned to keep your teeth hidden out there.

"I never bought that story." he retorted. "Sounds too much like the fantasy of
a little man wanting to believe he's important."

"Does it? But you're a living example of the principle in action." Singh said,
pouring hot water into the cafetiere. "I truly believe that had you not been
aboard the _Outlook on Forever_ that day, we would still be here. The sky
would still be open, but we would still be generations away from exploring
it."

"How d'you figure?"

"Without Kevin Jenkins, that would have just been another successful Hunter
raid. Without Kevin Jenkins, the galaxy's media would not have taken an
interest in our species. Without that, there would have been no uptick in
abductions. No uptick in abductions would mean no warp trail to lead a stray
Hunter vessel to Vancouver in search of prey. It's all quite narrative,
really."

He depressed the cafetiere's filter and poured a cup of steaming black Blue
Mountain.

"If that's how it works, then what about the patrol officer who kicked me off
the _Churthuarg_ station for vagrancy?" Jenkins asked. "Or the Corti who
abducted me, or my ex-wife or my lawyer or… you know what, I didn't come here
for this conversation."

"No, you came here about the Hierarchy." Singh handed over the coffee in an
elegant glass cup. The aroma was perfection itself. "I told the last person
who came knocking in no uncertain terms that her death was really only a
matter of time once she started probing into this, but she said she accepted
that." He sipped the coffee. "I hope she was truthful."

"She was prepared for it. Terri left her notes for us to find."

"You knew her?" Singh asked.

"She and I were… we fucked."

"Ah!" Singh looked sympathetic. "It must have been a complicated relationship,
if all you'll reveal is what you did, rather than how you felt. And so blunt,
too. You must be in a lot of pain."

"Dude!" Kevin threw his head back in frustration, then leaned forward. "I
don't want psychoanalyzing. I came here for information."

"That information will kill you."

"If they're what I suspect they are, then knocking on your door probably
killed me." Kevin said. "So how about you drop the guru half-speak and get on
with the movie."

Singh smiled again, this time allowing his teeth to show - a genuine, human
expression of delight. "Certainly." he said.

**Civilian Trade Station 1039: "Infinity Awaits"**

"That's a dangerous itinerary your ship has logged, cousin."

Shipmaster Kttrvk spun at being addressed so familiarly by a stranger.

The stranger was a Rrrrtktktkp'ch, standing nonchalantly next to an
advertising hoarding on the station's docking ring, which was helpfully
mocking the shipmaster by advertising life insurance. There was something
slightly familiar about the Cousin's facial structure, but the markings were
totally unknown to him.

"My itinerary? I don't have an itinerary. Excuse me." He turned to leave

"1047-6533-26 972." the Cousin said, reeling off Kttrvk's assigned route and
stopping the Shipmaster in his tracks. He looked faintly smug when Kttrvk
turned to give him a disbelieving stare.

"How did you…?"

"I have my ways." the stranger said, making it clear that those ways were not
for Kttrvk to know. "That's a dangerous route right now. A lot of Hunter
strikes."

"Well, your information is obsolete." Kttrvk said, firmly. "I'm not doing that
run."

"Long Stars Shipping seem to think you are."

"Long Stars Shipping can choke on their feed!" Kttrvk exclaimed, then
moderated his tone when a few nearby beings glanced at him. "I will NOT orphan
my children nor put them in harm's way just because the corporation is too
greedy to listen to my pleas."

"You'll go to debtor's prison…"

"An acceptable price for the lives of my offspring, my mate and our unborn."
Kttrvk snapped.

He was not expecting the expression of admiration and approval that spread
across the Cousin's face. "Good for you!" he exclaimed. "But I am here to
offer you a third way."

"And what way would _that_ be?" Kttrvk challenged him.

The stranger looked around and stepped in a little closer. "I represent an
organisation that wants to trial some new military hardware." he said.
"Simulations and training runs are all well and good, but there is no
substitute for the real thing, and the Hunter problem in this area will only
claim more lives unless _something_ is done… but they're too canny to come out
and fight just anything. We need… well, we need to entice them into attacking
something."

"That something being my freighter."

"You're quick." the Cousin said. From a Rrrrrtktktkp'ch to a Vzk'tk like
himself, that was a serious compliment.

"My freighter with my family on board." Kttrvk pointed out.

"My organisation would not offer to use you this way unless we were completely
certain of your safety under our care, I promise you that."

"And your organisation is…?" Kttrvk pressed.

The Cousin paused. "Let's just say that this technology would impress and awe
even the _humans_." he said, and made a small conspiratorial gesture that only
Kttrvk could see.

Enlightenment dawned. Of COURSE! Everybody knew that it was only a matter of
time before the humans got loose from their prison, it only made sense that
there would be… organisations… looking to prepare to meet the deathworlders in
battle and win.

And anything which could give the _humans_ a pause would surely go through
Hunters effortlessly.

Still, Kttrvk would not have become a merchant shipmaster without some guile
and caution.

"All of your assurances aside, I would still be risking everything dear to
me." he said.

"If you are pressing for payment, then to assuage your fears and buy your
lifelong _silence_ about this experiment, I am authorised to release fifty
Dominion Development Credits."

_Fifty DDCs._

It was a vast sum. Enough to upgrade the _Nkvcqtz_ with Corti engines that
would hopefully give her the speed to not only slip past Hunter ambushes, but
also to trade in high-value perishables. Sensibly invested on the other hand,
it would provide a very healthy retirement plan for Kttrvk and Ikkzziki, as
well as upmarket gene-resequencing for their children to enhance their
intellect and buy them prospects that Kttrvk had never had.

But a career merchant's instincts swung into place. _Never accept the first
offer_.

"A hundred." He counter-proposed. "We are risking a horrible death here."

"Seventy. I understand your concerns, but you are in the safest possible
hands. And yours is not the only ship that Long Stars is ordering on this
suicidal run. You will merely be the first to leave."

"…Done."

**Cimbrean**

"Well, even if you pass the baton first chance you get, you're still
technically in charge of every civilian aspect of this colony for the time
being." Powell said. He snatched a clipboard from where it was hanging on a
tent post and consulted it.

"Let's see… There's a list of stuff they'd like you to do. Nothing major: name
the colonial capitol, identify any existing human citizens, living or dead…
we've got real-time two-way communications with Earth but a pretty small data
budget of what we can send and receive: more like telegraph than anything. To
be honest, there's not much for you to do. Anything on this list you DO do
will be taken under advisement by the civilian experts and contractors we
bring in once this place is secure and the camp's up and running smoothly."

"That doesn't sound like it'll take a whole month." Jen said.

"We've got a lot of tech to deploy, a perimeter to establish, scouting to do,
maybe an FOB or two to set up.."

"FOB?"

"Forward Operating Base. Somewhere small and camouflaged where if this place
is bombed off the map… again… there'll be a couple of guys left behind to
report mission failure."

"Sounds boring." Jen complained.

"We'll find stuff for you to do." Powell promised. "And I mean USEFUL stuff,
now."

"Thanks."

"So? Any ideas as to the colonial capitol's name?"

"A… few. I'll sleep on that one."

"Fair enough. Okay… have you met any other humans out here? Besides Darragh
Houston, that is. Actually, where IS he?" Powell grabbed a different clipboard
and leafed through it.

"Feck knows. The last I saw of him he was on his way back here, but I did some
looking around while I was filling up my bath, and didn't find any sign of
him."

"Okay, he's an unknown then…" Powell stopped looking at the page he'd turned
to. "Any others?"

"Is that a list of abductees?"

"Every unaccounted-for human outside of Sol, in theory. Don't ask me how they
got it, I don't know."

"Okay, uh… a few. Adr… um, actually let's start with, uh, Margarita. I can't
remember her surname, she was a dwarf, Spanish."

"Was?"

"Yeah. She um… well, the honest truth is that an invisible death robot cut her
open."

"Invis…? O…kay. I think you're going to need to brief us on those things."

"I will." Jen promised.

"Right." Powell ticked something on his list. "Here she is. Deceased. At least
we'll be able to let her family know. Any others?"

"Cameron White. Very deceased and good fucking riddance."

Powell blinked, then flicked through his list. "Oh. Shit. Fookin' hell, what
were they thinking stealing a crazy wanker like that?" he ticked. "Good
fookin' riddance, aye."

"And uh… Adrian Saunders. Australian Defence Force…." she forced herself not
to give in to the temptation to look down, whisper and cry. "…Deceased."

"Wow. You've had a bad time of it…" Powell sighed, flipping through,his
document, then ticked off against, presumably, Adrian's name. "Deceased. Guess
his wife and kid will have closure at least…"

**Planet 16 Cyg B b, 16 Cygni trinary system.**  
**Hunter supply station**

+&lt;_contempt; disgust; snap_&gt; Report!+

The Omega did so, cowering appropriately as the Beta of the Brood-that-Flays
swaggered into the information node chamber.

+&lt;_Statement_&gt; There have been no transports of the specified size along
the prey-route within the last Diurnal, Beta.+

+&lt;_Disdain; command_&gt; Continue to monitor the traffic. The prey are
stupid and stubborn, there will be a few more before their patrols arrive. And
they are yet to send our tribute.+

+&lt;_Statement_&gt; I comply, Beta.+

Any brood above a certain size soon developed a small population of Omegas:
They were an unfortunate necessity, as some tasks were too menial to insult
the Deltas with, but too important to be entrusted to a meat-slave. This one,
however, was especially vile in the eyes of its Brood.

It would have been a source of immense surprise to every other species in the
galaxy that the concept of "creepy" was one that Hunters understood. But in
fact, it was a central one to their mindset: the Hunters were the Predators,
and everything else was the Prey. Predators behaved a certain way, and Prey
behaved a certain way. Any deviation from this natural order was _creepy_.

Hence the Great Hunt. The worm programs that the Hunters had long ago
infiltrated into the Prey's data networks, that lurked invisible and silent,
watching, collating and reconnoitering everything that the Prey chattered
about, had gathered a great wealth of their speculations on the motive behind
the Great Hunt: Opinion was mostly split into two camps, the first being that
the Hunters were _afraid_ of the human race, and the other being that the
Hunters were _jealous_.

Both theories were equally amusing, by the peculiar standards of Hunter
humour. The humans were a non-Hunter species that were Predators, and which
was inspiring the Prey to behave in unPreylike ways. This was disruption of
the natural order, a _creepy_ intrusion into the Way Things Were Meant To Be.
Their eradication was as obviously necessary as, for example, the correction
of a fatal structural flaw that would cause a building to collapse under its
own weight.

This particular Omega was only one wrong step away from demanding such action,
itself. Its existence was barely tolerated, barely tolerable; it lived forever
on a delicate knife-edge where its meat might be harvested and fed to the
breeding pools should it deviate further from acceptable Hunter normalcy.

This was not because it behaved in an unHunterlike way. Quite the contrary, it
did so very carefully, unfailingly and meticulously. What made it _creepy_ was
that it did not appear to do so naturally. Its thought-broadcasts were simple
statements, queries, respectful requests. There was never any emotional
content. When it joined the hunt-cry, it did so almost dutifully and by rote,
rather than with real enthusiasm.

Thus, even the other Omegas, which usually banded together out of bottom-of-
the-heap solidarity, tended to view this particular one as an opportunity to
claw back an anemic parody of the authority that other Hunters held over them.
The fact that it didn't seem to _mind_ \- displayed no discernible emotions at
all, whether resentment, resignation, complacency or contentment with its lot
- only added to the bottom-feeder's abnormality. It simply followed
instructions, diligently, swiftly, competently, and to the full extent of
their spirit and intent, often even going above and beyond.

This hinted at the other aberration: The Strange One clearly had a sharp and
calculating mind. It saw patterns with ease that other Hunters would overlook.
On the few occasions where it had dared to venture an opinion, none of those
opinions had yet been wrong. It grasped new tasks within moments, and
performed them as well as an experienced expert after only a few days. For a
creature so clearly talented to be apparently disinterested in its own stature
or reputation was therefore wrong, strange, _creepy_.

The Beta bared its fangs at the Strange One and then threw itself into the
throne traditionally occupied by the ranking Brood member present in the
information chamber, pointedly ignoring the inferior specimen and instead
stared out of the large gallery windows around the ceiling of the chamber,
enjoying the view.

The fact that Hunters had any notion of beauty or aesthetics at all would have
been similarly shocking to most of the prey-species. But in fact, the Hunters
were in their twisted way highly spiritual and artistic beings. Most of their
understanding of beauty was, perhaps predictably, a sanguine and violent one,
revolving around the flavour of well-stressed meat, the patterns made by blood
and organs and violent dismemberment, and the panic, fear and horror of the
Prey.

Lurking underneath that, however, was an innate appreciation for the universe
as a hierarchy of interconnecting parts, all in their place and tied by common
threads. To the Hunters, the sense of _How Things Should Be_ was a profound
one. Predators fed on Prey, bound together by Nature. Alphas commanded and
Omegas obeyed, bound by the common thread of the Brood. Moons orbited planets
orbited stars, all subordinate to Gravity.

The planet known to humans as 16 Cyg B b was a particularly spectacular
example of this last concept: a gas giant, two thirds again as massive as
Jupiter, towing with it a coterie of moons, a vast garland ring and a shotgun
blast of stray asteroids, captured comets and rocky dust, and it was into one
of these asteroids that the Hunters had carved out their forward base, close
enough to the spacelanes to easily intercept any choice prey that might use
them, but far enough away to be a practical escape and hidden refuge. Bathed
in the light of three suns, the view was stunning.

The Beta became aware that the Strange One was inspecting something on its
screen with greater than usual scrutiny.

+&lt;*impatience; tolerance; command&gt; Report, Omega+

+&lt;_Statement_&gt; Beta, a Prey-ship has passed through our sensor cordon at
abnormally high speed. &lt;_Observation_&gt; A ship that fast can only be
powered by the grey-skinned Prey's secret engines and a very large power
source.+

+&lt;_Interest; Query_&gt; Can it be intercepted?+

+&lt;_Statement_&gt; It cannot, Beta. It simply attracted my attention: I
apologise for intruding upon your time.+

The Beta grudgingly accepted the benighted creature's apology. The day was
just beginning to seem as if it would be a slow one without quarry, when the
Strange One expressed the one emotion it had ever been known to show.

+&lt;_Satisfaction; statement_&gt; Beta, a message from the Prey. The Herd of
the Long Stars have honoured their arrangement and are sacrificing a vessel as
we stipulated. A bulk freighter, High One. Of a configuration likely to
contain many long-necks and their young.+

The Beta allowed itself the luxury of a wide-mawed smile. While actually
deigning to _communicate_ with the prey was a task so wretched that even the
Omegas were only required to stoop to it it because the meat-slaves could not
be entrusted with the task, little "arrangements" with the so-called
"corporations" that made the greatest use of the shipping lanes was a mutually
beneficial arrangement: The Brood had neglected a rich hunting ground over the
arrangement with the Long Stars herd, allowing the Prey to grow rich and fat
off the easy pickings there.

The growth and prosperity of the Herd only served to fatten the meal and make
the hunting that much better in the long-run. Proper cultivation of the meat
was important, hence the willingness of the Broods to accept what might be
alternatively interpreted as demeaning bribery, as if the Predators should be
_bought_ by the prey. Naturally, a high price was only appropriate. The meat
itself was an excellent start, of course, but a bulk freighter was a large
vessel that could be recycled into many Swarm-ships, and would hold
younglings, ripe to become meat-slave breeding stock. The tribute was entirely
acceptable.

+&lt;_Jubilation; Command_&gt; A fine quarry! Alert the Alpha: we hunt. _Meat
to the Maw!_+

+&lt;_Statement_&gt; I comply, Beta. Meat to the Maw.+

The Beta snarled as it departed for its ship, mood somewhat spoiled by the
Omega's muted, unenthusiastic echo of a response. The Omega would receive only
scraps from this prize for its lack of vigor.

Behind it, the Strange One ran an algorithm of its own programming and loaded
it into the sensor console. The appearance of that abnormally fast ship was an
anomaly, and in its experience, anomalies usually led to interesting data.
Data that its _true_ masters would undoubtedly appreciate.

**Cimbrean**

"Wife and kid?" Jen kept the question light, while in her head there were
explosions and lightning bolts and screaming.

"Yep. Sandra Saunders _nee_ Perry. Lives in Brisbane with her daughter
Jessica."

"He never mentioned having a wife and kid."

"Well, the sprog's birthday is about seven months after his estimated date of
abduction, so he probably didn't know. As for the wife, well, wow. That might
have something to do with these arrest warrants…" Powell said, looking at
something that was clearly impressing him.

"Warrants?"

"Yyyep. Wanted for counts of Grievous Bodily Harm, Assault with Intent, theft
of a motor vehicle, driving while intoxicated, dangerous driving, reckless
endangerment of the public, arson, vandalism…" Powell turned a page. "…and
littering."

His attempt to maintain a deadpan expression at that last one failed, leaving
the smile straining at the corners of his eyes and mouth.

"He…" Jen paused mid outraged defense, and ran through her immediate
reactions. "He didn't. I _knew_ Adrian, he wouldn't… not to his **wife**!"

"Doesn't say _she_ was the victim." Powell pointed out.

"Well it must have been somebody who _hurt_ her or, or… He definitely wouldn't
do something like that to somebody he _loved_." She protested aloud, mouth
rushing off ahead of her thoughts.

_Except to protect her._ Old Jen reminded herself internally, flashing up the
memory of Adrian's inexorably strong arm clamped tight around her throat.

Her objections faltered. "…yeah. I guess that sounds like Adrian." she
admitted.

"Sounds like my kind of crazy bastard." Powell said, admiringly. "You sure
he's dead?"

"He was unconscious, and they were venting the atmosphere, trying to kill us.
If I'd tried to drag him to the escape pod, we'd have both died." Jen
asserted, though her old self hated to sound so… coldly practical.
Again,though, there was that understanding, nonjudgmental look in Powell's
eye, and it occurred to her that maybe she had some things in common with the
special forces captain that neither of them really wanted to have in common
with _anybody_.

Powell looked up as somebody knocked on crate next to his office tent and
stuck his head through the flap. "What's up, Brewer?"

The man who had knocked jerked his head towards something. "Solar array's
about ready, captain."

"Nice. Come on, Miss Delaney, you might like this."

Jen followed him out of the tent. "You can call me Jen." she said.

"I'll do that, then."

In the middle of the lawn, one of the trucks was parked next to an object
about the size and shape of an oil drum. Jump leads trailed from the device
and into the truck's engine, and a couple of men were gathered round hooking
up some extra equipment to it.

"So what's this solar array?" she asked.

"You know solar panels?"

"Yeah."

"Turns out force fields can do the same job. All you need is a little jump to
get them started, and then they power themselves and give you a bit of surplus
to spend on things like water heaters, computers and that."

"Water heaters?"

"Aye. Should make your baths a bit easier in future." Powell gave her a
winning smile, apparently immune to the scowl that answered him. Jen wasn't
quite so confident as to be perfectly happy about her inadvertent
exhibitionism, but the SBS Captain seemed to cheerfully give no fucks at all
about trivial things like accidental public nudity.

They watched as the array was powered up, with a snap as something sparked
inside the truck's engine. A ghostly orange dome of energy sprawled overhead,
then faded to almost invisibility as the system figured out how much power it
needed to draw and settled itself into equilibrium.

"Right. Look, I'm sending a patrol out in a few minutes, why not go with?
It'll take your mind off things and besides: we could use somebody who knows
the land, and you know it better than we do."

"I'm not exactly a soldier…" Jen hesitated.

"Trust me, you won't hold them back. Besides, I'm not too worried that there's
anything on this world that'd make you tagging along a bad idea. They'll only
be gone a few hours, just long enough to scout the area."

"That sounds… good, actually." Jen allowed. She had become so used to walking
that it almost felt uncomfortable just sitting around. Her body practically
ached to be moving.

"Thought it might." Powell shouted at one of the nearby soldiers. "Oi! Legsy!
Get Jen here a rifle and a sidearm and teach her how to use them, she's on
your patrol!"

He turned back to her. "You wait and see, by the time you're back, you won't
recognise this place, and I'll have your message from home ready for you to
watch in private."

**Freighter Nkvcqtz**

For all the Cousin's reassurances, Shipmaster Kttrvk had not been so
encouraged as to take the step of leaving station with his mate and children
aboard. They had been left behind, staying at a hotel paid for several
(months) in advance through the expenditure of just _one_ of the twenty DDCs
that the Cousin had agreed to pay in advance, with the other fifty to be
delivered upon completion of the mission.

The ship felt empty without them, and he had never felt more alone and
jittery. Neither had his crew, all of whom knew that staying on was an
enormous risk, but the company's hazard bonuses - and threats - were
sufficient to have persuaded most to remain, though all showed serious signs
of stress and fear.

It was almost a perverse release therefore to hear the warning chime from the
navigation system before they hit the edge of the gravity spike and the ALV
drive's field collapsed, dumping them back to the world of the sub-luminal.

The sensors immediately identified _four_ Swarm Craft, and large ones, each
capable of holding upwards of twenty Hunters. Every crewman onboard, Kttrvk
included, promptly grabbed and armed their pulse pistols.

This was not for the purposes of fighting off the Hunters, though it was to be
hoped that they could take a _few_ down before being overrun. The pistols were
for themselves: if you could help it, you didn't let the Hunters take you
alive. Better to die instantly than to be slaughtered while still conscious.

They waited as the Swarm-ships closed around them and the largest of them
settled in to its approach vector, lining up the fusion-ended boarding tube
that would violate their hull and inject terrible death onto their decks.

He was beginning to fear just how terrible his mistake had been when the local
space sensors alerted him to the arrival - via _jump drive_ somehow, despite
the apparent absence of any jump beacons in the area - of five ships of
unknown type, configuration and origin.

"_Edda Wing: Edda Actual - Weapons free. Til Valhall!!_"

"**OORAH!!**"

+&lt;_Alarm; Alert_&gt; Beta! Unknown warships have appeared via
displacement!+

The alert came at the worst possible time. The Alpha's ship had just lined up
and was extending its boarding proboscis to pierce the Prey's hull. It was at
its most vulnerable, its slowest, its shields lowered to get close to the
prey.

Already it was moving, abandoning the force-dock maneuver and trying to gain
distance enough to raise its shields and accelerate, but it was too late.
Exactly what kind of weapon it was that tore the Alpha's vessel apart was
unclear, but the side evaporated in a cloud of pulverised armour and metal
scraps, and air pressure did the rest, bursting the ship and practically
ripping it in half. Thirty-four Hunters, including the Alpha itself, briefly
broadcast their dismay and fear across the brood network before fading.

The Beta - now the new Alpha - hooked its neural implants directly into its
ship's controls and analysed the situation. There were five of them. The craft
were of a strange size, somewhat larger than a fighter or shuttle, but smaller
than the next largest conventional class of military vessel. And they were
_fast_, apparently blessed with a generous ratio of thrust to mass.

They were also alarmingly difficult to get a target lock on. Active sensors
seemed to slide off their hulls like water off a greasy metal plate, and the
ships themselves were small and agile, a combination which made securing a
solid fix on their exact location at any given time as much a matter of luck
and guesswork as of letting the sensors work. All were clearly being flown by
experienced and exceptional pilots - their transversal velocity was high and
their movements were coordinated so that if one of the remaining Hunter ships
maneuvered to minimise its vulnerability to one attacker, another would be
perfectly placed to rake it as it turned.

+&lt;_Statement; concern_&gt; These are not the tactics of Prey…+

As if to confirm that sentiment, three of the craft converged on another of
the remaining swarm-ships as it executed an ill-advised turn in response to a
feint. The new Alpha paid close attention to the weaponry they used, probing
the space around the attacking craft for signs of what manner of violence was
being unleashed. It detected only the burnt by-products of explosive
compounds, and a hail of high-speed flechettes.

With its shields up, the second Swarm-ship survived the assault, but was badly
mauled, losing a thruster and the coilguns along its larboard flank before the
aggressors had swept past, banking and accelerating, keeping their transversal
high. The sustained G-forces involved in that maneuver must have been
ferocious, and yet the ships showed no sign that their pilots were in
distress. A dreadful suspicion started to settle in the Alpha's mind.

+&lt;_Command; urgency_&gt; Meet aggression with aggression! We are not Prey!
Form up and fight as Predators!+

The Swarm-craft fell in around their wounded comrade, and as one the pack
turned, seeking a target. One of the attackers was isolated from its wing, its
evasive options whittled down by shepherding volleys of coilgun fire, and
there was a stab of triumph from the Alpha's gunner as it fired a perfect
solution that would surely obliterate the offending vessel, turning the tide.

The Alpha had to replay the sensor logs to determine what happened next. In
the tiny fraction of an instant it took for the coilgun rounds to cross the
intervening distance between muzzle and mark, their target displaced, blinking
two hundred kilometers across the sphere of engagement and re-entering the
fight unscathed.

Then the entire hostile wing imitated the move. Suddenly, all of the Swarm-
ships were flying in the worst possible direction, and their guns were pointed
completely the wrong way.

A storm of accurate firepower ablated the shielding around their sterns in
seconds.

+&lt;_Panic; Command_&gt; **Disengage!** Flee! Fl-+

A 30mm depleted Uranium armor-piercing incendiary round penetrated through all
of the ship's comparatively flimsy internal bulkheads, disintegrating as it
went. It arrived in the command deck as a dense knot of incandescent heavy
metal that reduced the Alpha to a smear of liquified matter when it passed
directly through the command chair before embedding itself in the forward
wall. The explosive force of its arrival crushed the other five Hunters on the
deck almost simultaneously.

Perforated by hundreds of similar rounds, the rear third of the ship
decompressed spectacularly, evaporating into an intricate dancing halo of
flashing metallic and ceramic shards, mixed here and there with the odd
disembodied piece of Hunter. The handful that were unfortunate enough to
survive in the forward compartments did not do so for long - power failed
instantly, and with it went the emergency air-retaining forcefields.

From the moment Edda wing arrived on the field to the second the final Hunter
ship lost power and fell apart, less than three minutes had elapsed. Not one
of the TS-101s had expended even half of their capacitor reserves or
ammunition.

**Freighter Nkvcqtz**

"What. Just. Happened?"

Kttrvk came back to reality. He had done nothing but stare dumbfounded at the
swirling battle on the sensors throughout its brief but intense duration. He
looked around at his crew, all of whom were wearing identical expressions of
utter awe.

He gathered himself.

"We survived, that's what. Get the FTL repaired and let's be gone!"

**Planet 16 Cyg B b, 16 Cygni trinary system**  
**Hunter supply station**

The Strange One considered the recording it had made, all of the sensor data
it had intercepted from the destroyed swarm-ships.

That the aggressors were human vessels was obvious, and a fact which
exonerated the Long Stars herd of treachery. Incomplete and all-but-useless as
the data was, that much could be gleaned effortlessly. That it should forward
the data to its true masters was equally obvious.

But what of its "fellow" Hunters? The information would be of precious little
use to them. It contained no hint at all of how the ships had been able to
jump across the sphere of engagement without the use of jump beacons, what
kind of weaponry they used, nor how the pilots could possibly react swiftly
enough to blink-jump out of harm's way as that first one had. The Strange One
knew enough about humans via its true masters to know that even _their_
impressive reflexes were not so sharp as that.

Probably useless as the information might be, the Alpha-of-Alphas especially
was dangerously intelligent. If the Hunters _were_ somehow able to glean
whatever secrets the humans had unlocked, they would become an even worse
blight than they already were. The Hunters were useful, keeping the masses
nervous and distracted, but should they gain too much and too quickly…

The decision was obvious. It ran another program, placing a call that it made
only rarely, when certain it would not be caught. Right now, with the whole
Brood in upheaval over the death of both Alpha and Beta, for the Strange One
to continue calmly working at its terminal would be taken as just another
symptom of its strangeness and the content of that work would be ignored.

+_I have potentially valuable information on the Sol situation_+

The reply was instant: +_Ready to receive._+

The Strange One promptly transferred all of its files. There was a pause of
some minutes, which it used to update its archived mind-state. Now was one of
the few occasions it had been able to safely do so.

Eventually, the reply came:

+_You have done well, Twenty. The Hierarchy can make use of this
information._+

**Cimbrean**

"Legsy" turned out to be an enormous Welshman, who towered over Jen and seemed
to take the whole world with irreverent good humour.

"Right! Ever handled a gun before?" He asked, fishing around in the back of a
truck.

"Sort of." Jen said.

"Whatcha mean?"

"We modified some of those shitty pulse guns to fire actual ammo. They were
okay, but…"

"Awh, they'll be nothing next to these bad boys!" Legsy said. "Say whatcha
like about the fuckin' Germans, those cunts know how to make a fuckin' gun."

"Pardon your French…" Jen muttered.

"Wha? Oh, right. Get used to it darling, I'm from Llanelli."

He hauled something out of the truck's bed. "Anyway, THIS" he held up a gun
"is the HK G36C. Before I give it to you, d'you know the rules of firearm
safety?"

Jen's lessons with Adrian on a deathworld she had never learned the name of
came back to her. "Always assume it's loaded and ready to fire and the
safety's off." she recalled. "Don't point it at something unless you're
completely okay with that thing ending up dead or destroyed. Don't have your
trigger finger inside the guard unless you're going to shoot. Be aware of
what's near and behind your target."

Legsy handed her the gun.

"Safety, magazine eject, charging handle. Got that?"Jen repeated the
identification, and he nodded, then pointed to something on the top of the
gun. " This here's an OCOG \- that's Offworld Combat Operations Gunsight.
Designed for use in different gravity, right? Aim it at that target down
there…" Jen did so. "See how the chevrons tell you the range, and stay on
target no matter where your head is? Okay, tuck it into your shoulder a bit
more… right. You know how to hold one, anyway. Give it here."

When Jen had done so, he demonstrated the correct way to load and charge it a
few times before handing it back to her and watching as she repeated the
motion. Satisfied, he handed her a magazine with a strip of coloured tape
around it.

"Okay, this is a charged mag and that's live ammunition. Fire off a few rounds
at that target by there." He said.

Jen looked at it. "How far is that?"

"Hundred meters, nice and easy." Legsy said, happily. "That gun's effective
out to about eight hundred, but the furthest target we've got is six hundred
meters, which would be that little one waaaay over there." He pointed at a
little speck hanging from a distant tree. "But we're going to start nice and
easy."

Jen shrugged, turned, raised the gun, sighted, and fired. The recoil was
surprisingly hefty compared to the repurposed pulse-guns she was used to and
the first shot hit a bit high. She adjusted, and the rest of her shots formed
a tight grouping smack in the middle of the target.

"Fuckin' 'ell!" Legsy said, clearly impressed. "Okay, recoil surprised you a
bit there. Squeeze the trigger, don't jerk it, and try to be breathin' out
when you fire. Go for that one over there with the orange stake next to it,
that's three hundred meters."

Jen's shots hit low. "Sights are off." she observed.

"Or you're just shit." Legsy teased, grinning. "Nah, you're right. That
sight's not been calibrated for Cimbrean's gravity yet, you'll need to adjust
it. See that little dial on the side?"

Jen experimented with it, twisted it a bit, and saw how the chevrons moved and
widened out a bit. She fired, hit a bit high, twisted the OCOG a little less,
fired, hit smack in the middle, and something went click in her brain.

She grinned, aimed, and squeezed off all the remaining rounds in the magazine
before laying the gun flat in front of her, pointing downrange.

"You missed." Legsy said, examining the three hundred meter target through
binoculars and sounding puzzled.

"Look at the six hundred meter target." Jen told him. He frowned and raised
his binoculars again, and Jen folded her arms and allowed a cocky smile to
form as she watched the giant Welsh soldier's jaw drop.

**Brick, New Jersey**

It really was very good coffee.

"Here on Earth, The Hierarchy would be just another conspiracy theory." Singh
told him, settling down into his recliner. "But they are very real. They have
acted behind the scenes of galactic politics since the days when some of the
older species were still around."

"Still around?" Kevin echoed, questioning.

"Species come, species go." Singh said. "You must have noticed that all of the
civilizations out there are much of an age with us. A few thousand years older
at most."

"So…. what, species just go extinct eventually?"

"Eventually. Usually after tens of thousands of years as warp-capable
civilizations. But in time, well… it's not quite clear why. It's the grand
unanswered question of alien sociology. But yes, in time they all enter a
terminal decline. Every race up there is living on borrowed time."

"No exceptions?"

Singh issued a slim-lipped, grim smile and set his coffee down. "Just one. The
Hunters. There are references to them in archaeological archives dating back
to the days when humanity was still just a balder-than-average ape with
unusual posture. Nobody quite knows HOW old they are. But the rest?
Eventually, they crumble, their works decay, they withdraw to their homeworld,
set up shop and just… dwindle. They stop breeding and… give up."

He leaned forward. "Except for the deathworlders."

Kevin's brow creased. "…But we're the only deathworlders, though. Aren't we?"

"We are, yes, but we shouldn't be. Let me tell you my story…."

