# Chapter 22: "Warhorse" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 4y 10m AV**  
**Dominion Embassy Station, Earth/Luna L1 point, Sol system**

**_Dr. Anees Hussein_**

Shaking hands with a Corti was an exercise in delicacy. Dr. Hussein thought of
himself as an old and increasingly frail man, but he still had the grip
strength to cause serious harm to the alien's hand if he applied a little too
much vigor. So it wasn't so much a handshake as a hand_touch._

Still. It was a civil, civilized gesture, and that alone was a mark of just
how much his relationship with the Directorate's ambassador, Medra--and
through them both, Earth's relationship with the Corti Directorate--had
evolved in a relatively short space of time.

"Thank you for seeing me." he said, gratefully taking his seat when the Corti
had gestured towards it with those long, fine-boned fingers that he could so
easily have pulverized.

Medra affected a small, businesslike smile. "Thank you for asking nicely." he
retorted. "The Gaoians continue to think they can just barge into my office
whenever they please."

"The Gaoians don't want something from you." Hussein replied. He had quickly
learned that the Corti truly loved the direct approach. If you irritated them,
they could skate and slide around the issue and deal in lies and half-truths
with the best of them, but if you cut straight to the matter at hand and
phrased things bluntly, they responded in kind and pretty soon you had either
a deal or an argument. It had been true of Medra's predecessor, and it was
true of Medra.

After the tangled web of his home country's politics, it was paradise.

"Indeed? That seems like a deviation from your previous position."

"There has been a change of strategy." Anees revealed. "Opportunities that we
are now considering the possibility of exploiting, to the mutual benefit of
any species who partners with us in exploiting them."

Medra sat back. "Please don't be vague, Doctor."

"All in good time. I would rather tell you what we need. I'm sure you will see
our intent soon enough."

"Please, do tell me." Medra replied. That was another thing about Corti
psychology. They couldn't resist having both their ego flattered and their
intellect challenged at the same time.

"Two things. We would like to purchase from you the technology to make a
lightweight load-bearing exoskeleton that does not require a power source to
provide assistance to a moving wearer."

"Trivial. The other?"

"A drug. Cruezzir."

Medra sat forward. "That is not going to happen." he stated, bluntly.

"Why not?"

"Cruezzir has a history of interacting…dangerously with human physiology. It
has created two of the most notorious and effective criminals the galaxy has
ever seen, in fact."

"Yes, I've read their files." Anees replied. "I also know enough about
Cruezzir to be certain that, in their cases, it was applied incautiously and
incorrectly, and that the long term effects are devastating in terms of mental
health, which would be detrimental to our plans."

Medra stared at him, thoughtfully. "You're creating super-soldiers." he
decided after a few seconds.

"An elite unit, certainly." Anees conceded. "Possibly the _most_ elite. But _
'super-soldiers'_ may be going too far."

"And what conceivable reason would we have for assisting the most dangerous
species in the galaxy in creating the most dangerous soldiers they possibly
can?"

"Ambassador, if we had designs on threatening the Corti, or anybody else for
that matter, then I daresay we wouldn't _need_ an elite unit. Our regular
infantry would easily suffice for any ground warfare conducted against any
Dominion species, don't you think? Why would we go to the expense and
difficulty of creating a new elite?"

"In which case I'm intrigued as to the purpose of this hypothetical
_'elite'_." Medra confessed. "What DO you intend to do with an asset like
that?"

Anees allowed the inner _'gotcha'_ that rang triumphantly around his head to
feed his best warm, closed-lipped smile. "Why, ambassador." he said. "To clean
up the mess we have made, of course."

**Date Point: 4y 10m AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**

"You've got to realise you're asking me about classified information there,
kid."

"I know." Adam had declined the offer to sit down opposite Captain Powell. He
preferred to stand instead, resting his hands lightly on the back of the
offered chair. "I'm not asking you to just _tell_ me. I'm asking you what I
have to do to earn it."

Powell's own chair creaked as he sat back and folded his arms, scrutinising
Adam, who said nothing, trying not to fidget.

"Earn it." he repeated.

"Yes."

"Right." Powell unfolded his arms and rubbed a thumb on his chin thoughtfully.
"Why?" he asked.

The question threw Adam a bit, outraging him. "Wh-? What do you mean '_why'_?"
he demanded. "My best friend is dead! So's my mother! So's everyone I went to
school with. Millions of people!"

"Right." Powell agreed, nodding amiably. "That rather proves that what you're
after, _if_ it exists, is a big deal, doesn't it? So…what are you going to do
with the information, should you acquire it? Is it obsession? Curiosity?
Revenge? What?"

"I want to do whatever I can to stop anyone else from dying!" Adam snapped.

Powell threw him again when his face split into a broad smile. "That so?" he
asked.

"That's so."

The captain nodded, and sat forward. "Right then. If that's your goal, then
realistically, you're looking at military service. And I don't just mean
becoming a jarhead or MP. I'm talking intel, special forces, something like
that."

"Not a problem." Adam told him.

"Aye? Well, we'll see. Now…" Powell rubbed his chin again. "Realistically
speaking…the only two services that are doing anything in space right now are
the Royal Navy and the US Air Force. Thanks to your Cimbrean citizenship,
you're eligible to join either service, but frankly you're more American than
Brit, so the latter'd maybe suit you a bit better."

He sat back again. "As for what you do in your chosen service…well, that one's
your choice to make, I can't advise you there."

"How did you choose?" Adam asked him.

"Me? The motto." Powell said. "'_Through Strength and Guile._' I liked that,
thought it sounded right fookin' badass."

He noticed the change in Adam's expression. "What?"

"I've…never heard you swear before."

"I don't swear around children." Powell said, simply.

"I'm still only sixteen."

"Maybe, but it's not about how old you are, Ares. It's about the choices you
make and your reasons for making 'em."

He nodded toward the door. "This isn't a decision to be made here in my
office." he said. "Hit the library, do some research, think about it. My
door's open, alright?"

Adam nodded, still a little stunned by the show of respect. "I…Thank you,
captain."

Ava seemed to spend every waking second playing with her inherited camera
these days, familiarising herself with its functions and the different effects
she could achieve by varying the shutter speed, aperture size, focus and more.
When she wasn't studying the device itself, she was studying what Sara had
done with it, examining the photos their friend had taken and making notes
about their arrangement composition and more. She'd co-opted an entire wall of
their living room in fact, covering it in post-it notes and colour prints, not
to mention having borrowed every single book on photography that Folctha's
library had.

"The motto?" she asked.

"I guess. It seems like as good a thing to go on as anything else." Adam
replied.

She put the camera down. "But…special forces, Adam? Won't that take you away
for a long time?"

He stopped searching for a second and turned in his seat. "…Yeah, it will." he
agreed.

They hugged, melting into each others' arms without either of them needing to
invite the other.

"What are you going to do, do you think?" He asked after a silent minute or
so. She ran a hand through her curls.

"I guess…I want to help people too." she said. "I want to make some sense of
all this. And now this camera's been left to me, and Sara always talked about
being a photojournalist…"

"How do you even get started on that? It's not like they have recruitment…"

"I've been doing my own research there." Ava told him. "I thought I'd try for
City University London."

"I guess you'll be away for a long time too then, huh?"

She nodded, resting her forehead against his. "I guess…"

She caught sight of what was on his screen and looked up. "I like that one."

"Hmm?" he turned, and read it aloud. "'_That Others May Live'_?"

"Yeah." She said. "What do you think?"

Adam stared at it for a few seconds, repeating it under his breath. "I
think…that's the one." he said.

"Pararescue?" Powell looked genuinely stunned. "Bloody hell, Ares. I can't
fault your ambition, but are you _sure_?"

"The motto speaks to me." Adam shrugged.

"…Aye, alright. But not to try and talk you out of it or owt like that, you're
setting yourself up for a really fookin' difficult couple of years."

"I know the training will be hard, but--"

"No." Powell interrupted him, standing up. "You don't. You have no fookin'
clue what _hard_ really is, I promise you that."

Adam was smart enough to shut up and let him say his piece. The captain dug
into his foot locker and pulled out a small A5 notebook, which turned out to
be pasted full of photographs and hand-written notes. He flipped through the
first few pages until he alighted on a picture of a young, acne-scarred man
who was gazing proudly out of the photograph. "This was me when I took the
Potential Royal Marines Course." he said. "Right dorky little shite, wasn't
I?"

Adam caught his eye, and realised Powell was amused at himself. "I fookin'
thought I was a proper Marine, I did. The PRMC is two and a half days, they
test you in the gym and the assault course, take you on a three mile run…I
thought '_if this is what it's like, this is going to be fookin' easy_." He
laughed silently, deep in his chest, and flipped the page "Then I went through
the actual Royal Marines training."

The next photo had less acne and a stronger, more Powell-like expression, worn
by a young man in a black uniform and green beret, with a rifle held precisely
by his side. "_That_ was tough. The PRMC didn't prepare me for it at all, it
just meant I was tough enough to START the training without collapsing."

He closed the book.

"Every step along the way, I came up against limits I didn't know I had and
went beyond them. Marines Commando training was fookin' _hell_, but I cleared
it. Now: To apply for the Special Boat Service, you need a minimum of two
years' service as a marine commando. Did that. Got some medals, too. Figured I
was doing well. Then I applied for the SBS, and _that_ finally brought me up
against the joint UKSF selection program."

He opened the book again, flipping to a series of pages filled with pictures
of rolling, rugged mountains, many of them falling off to sheer drops. "The
_first_ phase of that ends in a test week: five back-to-back days of walking
sixteen or so miles a day in the Welsh mountains with a fifty pound bag and a
rifle, and on the last day? **_Forty_** miles, which you've got to finish in
less than twenty hours."

He sat down. "And it just gets tougher from there. _Much_ tougher. Men have
died in that training. I failed the first time, only barely managed it the
second but managed it I fookin' well did. Right?"

Adam nodded his understanding. "Okay…?"

"From what I've heard of it, I honestly don't know if I could have made it
through the Pararescue pipeline." Powell confessed. His face was the very
picture of deadly seriousness. "They call it '_Superman School_' for a bloody
good reason."

"…But people do get through it." Adam pointed out.

"Oh aye, they do. And if you think you'll be one of them, then fookin' well go
for it. I just want you to have some idea of what you'd be getting yourself in
for."

"Let's say I do manage it…" Adam said. "Will that get me in on the secret?"

Powell said nothing, but returned to his desk and sat down.

"Your first step," he said, not answering the question, "…is recruitment. The
nearest US armed forces recruiting center is technically in Seattle, 'cause
that's the easiest place to get to from Scotch Creek. If you're going to walk
in there and say '_I want to be a Pararescueman_' then it's going to take,
oh…a week or so, total, so you'll need a hotel room."

"That long?"

"You thought it was as easy as just '_Hi there, I would like to soldier
please'_? You'll have to take a…" Powell looked up, remembering a detail.
"…ASVAB, I think it's called. Vocational Aptitude test. They'll put you
through a physical and mental evaluation, you'll talk to a special forces
recruiter, the works."

He sniffed. "If they take you--though I can't see why they wouldn't--you'll go
straight on from there to Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio for basic
training. That's eight weeks. You'll graduate, see your family for the
weekend, and then that's it. You're on to the PJ pipeline and you'll find it a
lot harder to see them again after that. Realistically? Christmas, and that's
about it. For two years, maybe longer."

Adam went quiet and thought long and hard about that one.

"If that's how I earn it, that's how I earn it." He said at last.

"Decision made, then?"

"Yes."

Powell nodded, then stood and shook Adam's hand. "Well then. I'll be cheering
for you." He said.

"Could I…?" Adam tailed off then shook his head. "Never mind."

"Spit it out, mate."

"If this is going to be hard…could you help me get started? Give me a taster?
Get me in shape?"

Powell paused. "I'll have to discuss it with Legsy, he's the one who
specialized in training and instruction." he said. "And he won't like it."

"Why not?"

"Well because he likes you, you daft bugger!" Powell said. "And while he'll be
happy to get you up to standard for Basic, if he's going to give you even a
fookin' _taster_ of Pararescue indoctrination, which is what I think you're
asking for…" Adam nodded "…Then he'll have to go hard on you, right hard."

"I guessed as much." Adam said, patiently. He was beginning to grow tired of
Powell driving the point home.

Powell noticed, and sighed. "I'll…talk to Legs. Meet us in the gym tomorrow at
10:30, after a good breakfast. You'll need it."

"Thank you, Captain."

"Might be a bit premature there, mate." Powell joked. "But you're welcome.
I'll…do what I can to help you along."

"You will?"

"Aye. I'll provide a reference, and believe me, that'll count for a lot. But
you'd better get on and have a good night's sleep."

"I will. Thank you, captain."

Half of Powell's mouth ticked upward. "Dismissed." he said. "…trainee."

**_Hayley Tisdale_**

The advantage to Cimbrean's small, compact houses was that answering the door
never took long, even if it was just yelling "I'll be out in a minute!"

Hayley used that time to fill the kettle and started it boiling, take quick
stock of the house to make sure it was tidy, and hide a certain little white
box before she opened it.

Not for the first time, she reflected that with her heart-shaped face and
curly dark hair, Ava was the very picture of the painfully pretty girl next
door in jeans and flannel. Today, though, she was also painfully nervous about
something, to judge from the way she'd been pacing little awkward circles
outside, rubbing her fingers together.

"Ava? What's wrong, honey?"

"Umm…" Ava gave her a nervy little smile. "Nothing's _wrong_, it's just I
could…I could just use some advice."

"From me?" That was astonishing. Hayley wasn't sure she was qualified to
advise anybody on anything these days.

"Please?"

Hayley stepped aside "Come on in." she offered.

Ava did so, and perched herself restlessly onto the edge of the couch.

"Cup of tea, sweetie? Or, I've got Ovaltine…"

Ava smiled, a little weakly. "Ovaltine would be nice." she agreed.

Hayley let her relax as she bustled about, taking a little longer making the
drinks than was strictly necessary. By the time she was done, Ava had sat back
a little and released some tension in a big sigh.

"So…what's up?" Hayley asked, though she had a sneaking suspicion.

"I, um…" Ava puffed out her cheeks and exhaled. "Adam and me, we've never…I
mean…"

Okay, so Hayley's suspicion had been wrong, but now she understood what this
was really about. "You've not? Oh, honey…I kind of thought with you living
together…"

Ava looked down at her hands, which were a frantic little knot of fingers.
"Different beds." she said, with a little laugh. "Are you…okay with me coming
to you?"

"Well who else are you going to ask? Adam's dad?" Hayley laughed, and Ava
giggled. "No, honey, it's…I'm actually kind of flattered. What do you need to
know?"

"I guess…whether I should, really." Ava said, relaxing. "I mean, Mom and Dad
always said I should wait for marriage, and…"

"So did mine. I didn't listen."

"Yeah, but…"

"No, honey, listen to me a second." Hayley shuffled forward on the couch and
set her tea down. "I know you miss your parents so much it hurts. I can't go
two hours without remembering Sara and…" she closed her eyes and rallied.
"But…Let me tell you what I wish I'd told her, okay? All your parents would
want is for you to be happy, and to be safe. That's all."

"It is?"

Hayley nodded. "They told you to wait because they didn't want you rushing in
and getting hurt." she said. "There's nothing magical about your wedding day
that'll suddenly make it the right choice if it wasn't before, and if it's the
right choice now, then…why wait?"

Ava was nodding along, but she frowned. "How…do I know when it's right?" she
asked.

"Well, you…" Hayley paused to think about it. "Okay, now here's something I
wish _my_ parents had told _me_, okay?"

"Okay…?"

"Sex is…nice." She paused, and corrected herself. "No, it's great, even. But
everyone seems to get this idea that it's this precious, special thing and
they say all kinds of stupid stuff about it. Judging you for having too
little, too much, being a virgin, _not_ being a virgin… "

"So…I shouldn't care?" Ava asked.

"Exactly! Just be smart about it. Have as much or as little as you want, and
don't let anybody tell you when or with who or anything like that. That's all
your choice and nobody else's. Just be smart about it."

"Smart?"

"Well I mean, you know about…the pill, and condoms and everything, right?"

"Oh, _that!_" Ava looked relieved. "Yes I…I know that stuff."

"Good. So be smart about using them, because…trust me on this, you really
don't want to be a mum yet."

"No." Ava agreed.

"Okay. So the question isn't '_how do you know when it's the right time_',
okay? The question is just…'_Do you want to_'?"

There was a long pause, during which Ava drank about a third of her Ovaltine.
"Adam's…going away." she said, eventually and quietly.

Hayley shuffled around the corner and put an arm round Ava, rubbing her back.
"He is?"

Ava nodded. "He turns seventeen a few days before Christmas, and he's…joining
the military."

"Oh, honey…"

"No, no. I'm happy: I'm going to be doing something too. We both want to
achieve something and this is the way he's doing it." She sounded like she
meant it. "But…he's going to be gone for so long, and…"

"You feel like you should give him a proper send-off?"

Ava nodded.

"That's…for me, that wouldn't be the right reason, sweetie."

Ava wrapped both hands around her Ovaltine and sipped it. "In that case…what
_would_ be the right reason?" She asked.

"There's only one right reason, honey: because you both want to. The list
starts and ends there."

They sat in silence for a bit until Ava had finished her drink.

"I'm leaving too." Hayley revealed.

"…You are?!" Ava looked up, and Hayley internally winced at the desperation
she saw in the younger girl's eyes. "Hayley, why?"

"Don't worry, it's not because of Sara or anything. I'll be coming back." she
promised. "I'm just going away for a few months."

"Why?"

"I'm…Mark and I are having another baby." She dug the pregnancy test box out
from where she'd hidden it under a throw pillow. "We're worried about the low
gravity affecting the baby's development, so I'm going back to Earth for a
year…You're the first person I've told besides him."

"Oh, wow… "

"I think I conceived a day or two before we lost Sara…I know Mark and I
haven't…we've not been together since then."

"You've not?"

Hayley nodded. "I'm not ready." she said. "I'm so scared I'll treat the new
child like a replacement for Sara. But…here we are. So, I'm going back to work
with the Earth end of the Reclamation Project, and Mark's staying here."

It was Ava's turn to put a hand on Hayley's arm. "Are you two..?"

"We're…" Hayley squeezed back some impending tears with a forced smile. "We're
fine. Really. He gets angry sometimes, I've said some things that…We scare
Jack sometimes. But we always cuddle and talk it out afterwards. In a way, I'm
glad the baby's come along. It'll give us both something to work on for the
future. Maybe that and a little distance will help."

She wiped her eyes. "Come on, you came here for advice. Is…did I help?"

Ava nodded. "You helped a lot." she promised. "I just have one question left,
really."

"Sure."

"How will I know if Adam wants to?"

Hayley giggled. "Honey, with boys? It's _so_ easy to tell."

"Be serious." Ava protested.

"I was!" Hayley assured her. "But the simplest way is to just ask him. Failing
that, if you want to be sure…well, if you make it obvious that you want him,
then you'll know soon enough either way."

"So…how do I make it obvious?"

Hayley laughed. "Go into his room wearing some perfume and one of his T-shirts
and nothing else, kiss him, then grab his wrist and put his hand on your
butt." she said. "He'd have to be _dead_ not to get that message."

"But what if-?"

Hayley interrupted her, patiently. "Ava. Sweetie. Everything after that point
is for you and him, okay? There's no script. Just _talk_ to one another. Tell
him how you feel, tell him what you want to do, tell him what you want _him_
to do, ask him what _he_ wants…That's the most important thing, okay?
Communication."

"That sounds…awkward." Ava was blushing.

"It will be. Forget what it's like in movies, sex is always at least a little
bit awkward. Your first time most of all. Just…live with that and try to have
fun."

"…Thanks, Hayley."

"No; thank _you_. It's good to…" she'd been about to say something about
falling back into that mother role, but decided against it. "…to be able to
give advice." she finished.

Ava smiled and gave her a little hug. She left the house looking much more
relaxed than she had entered it.

For her part, Hayley was surprised to find there was a little warm coal of
happiness deep inside her again. As soon as Ava was out of the way, she sat
down and wept, happily.

**_Owen Powell_**

"So…what am I going to be doing?" Adam was asking, as Powell entered the gym.
Legsy hadn't, as predicted, been happy about giving Adam a '_taster_', but the
young man was persuasive and knew his own mind.

The sergeant just picked up the rucksack that had been leaning against the
wall behind him, hoisting it easily in one hand. "You're going to run around
the gym wearing this." he said.

"Okay…" Adam turned around. "How heavy is--_oof!_"

"Do up that one around your waist…and that one across your chest. Pull 'em
tight…no, tighter than that, come on! There you are." Legsy instructed, until
the pack was strapped tight to Adam's body. He gave it an experimental shake,
yanking the teenager around. "Good?"

Adam nodded, though his expression had an edge of trepidation to it now.
"Good."

"…Well, what are you waiting for then?" Legsy demanded. Adam made an '_oh,
right_' face and set off at a jog.

"Is that what you call running?" Legsy shouted after him. "Come on, you're
here to _train_, boyo!"

Adam nodded and gained some speed.

"_Your crippled old man runs faster than that, come on!_" Legsy spurred him.
Powell ambled across the gym as the kid found his third gear and started to
actually run round the gym.

"_That bag won't get lighter if you slow down, pal!_" Legsy called, then
noticed his commanding officer and stood to attention. "Captain."

"Not a bad start." Powell observed, waving at him to stand easy. Adam was in
athletic shape at least. He wasn't a fast runner, and probably never would be,
but after a little encouragement he was doing a pace that should at least
spare him the indignity of being the slowest trainee when he got to basic.

"Don't let him hear you say that, sir." Legsy admonished him, then raised his
voice again. "_You'll have to bloody SHAVE by the time you're done at this
rate, come on!_"

"How heavy _is_ that bag, anyway?"

"Fifteen kilos." Legsy said.

"You're starting the kid out on tab weight?"

"If he's going for PJ, sir…_faster boyo, come on!_…then fuck aye I'm starting
him there." Legsy told him. "Besides, he's stronger than he looks."

Powell watched Adam piston along, already drenched in sweat and red as a
forge. "You know training better than me." he conceded.

He lurked against the wall and watched as Legsy cajoled, spurred and berated
Adam into keeping up the pace, verbally goading the boy to keep putting one
foot in front of the other, clicking the little counter in his hand every time
Adam made it back past the start line.

It wasn't long before the exertion began to really catch up, though. Adam's
steps became wobbly, his rhythm faltered. He was practically on the edge of
falling over when he passed the start line again and Legsy finally blew his
whistle.

They let him rest and had a quick conversation.

"Well?" Powell asked.

"Look at this." Legsy showed him the counter.

Powell arched an eyebrow at the number on it. "Really?"

"Stronger than he looks, like I said. And he's got more in him, too. Reckon he
could stand up and do maybe even half as many again."

"You're sure?"

"Fuck aye." Legsy agreed. "Especially if we can find his superman button."

"His…hmm." Powell rubbed his chin. "Mind if I-?"

"Be my guest."

They knocked fists together, and Powell took his time ambling over to where
Adam was still lying spread-eagled on the heavy pack.

"Enjoying your nap?" he asked.

Adam's breathing was much improved even by the time Powell reached him, though
the lad was clearly in a lot of discomfort as he tried to raise his head. "How
did I do?" he asked.

"Do? You're not done yet, mate."

"…you're _kidding_?!"

"Nope."

"But…how… ? _Everything_ hurts!"

"Is that right? Fine, that's nowt to be worried about." Powell reassured him.
"You can lie there a bit longer, but while you're at it, I want you to imagine
the future."

"Okay…?"

"Imagine…Adam Ares, seventy years from now, dying peacefully in hospital,
surrounded by his beautiful wife and beautiful kids and beautiful grandkids.
Idyllic, right? A warm hand in his, and his family all about him, he closes
his eyes and slips away…and there they are."

Adam just gaped at him, confused.

"The ghosts." Powell clarified. "The ghosts of all the people he _could_ have
saved but didn't, because '_everything hurt_' seventy years earlier. Every
life lost because young Adam Ares didn't have it in him to push on through the
pain. Every soul he has to look in the eye and know that their lives mattered
less to him than a little fookin' _comfort_."

Adam's breathing slowed hugely as he sat there for a second with his mouth
still open.

Then, without a word, he rolled over, hauled himself to his feet, and began to
run.

**Date Point: 4y11m1w AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches.**

**_Adam Ares_**

"_Happy Birthday!!_"

The now familiar soreness and weakness in Adam's legs were promptly forgotten
when he found Ava and his dad waiting for him in the front room, and a wrapped
present and some cards on the table. Not to mention the cake.

"Seventeen years." Gabriel said, hauling himself upright and giving Adam a
heartfelt hug. "It's been a wild ride, _amigo_."

"_Asi es la vida_." Adam returned the hug. "I thought you were back on Earth
for the Lehmann case?"

"And miss this? I'd have beat them out the way with my cane if they'd tried to
make me stay." Gabriel scoffed.

"_Gracias_." Adam meant it, too. He sat down next to Ava, who kissed him
lightly on the cheek. "Presents? I'm not used to birthday presents."

"You're not?" Ava asked.

"Well, Christmas in three days, usually I just get a big Christmas present,
you know?"

"Well, what do you get the man who's leaving everything behind?" Gabriel
asked.

"…good question." Adam said, eyeing the gifts. Gabriel just grinned and lit
the candles--two large numbers, rather than a field of seventeen small ones.
"Blow them out and you'll see." he promised.

Adam dutifully did so, and Ava slid the gifts in front of him as Gabriel set
about cutting the cake.

"That one's from the school." she said as Adam selected it. He fingered the
odd, lumpy package for a second, then gave up on identification and ripped it
open.

"Sandals and a…toiletries bag?" He opened it and peered inside, finding an
assortment of hygiene products and some deodorant.

"They did some research and apparently you'll need all of those in training."
Ava explained.

"Huh. Thoughtful of them." Adam set them aside, pleased with the gift.

Ava gave him an embarrassed smile when he opened her gift. "You're allowed so
little and…y'know, the school had already got you everything, so, I, uh…kind
of donated to charity in your name." she confessed. "I'm sorry."

"WaterAid?" Adam read the card.

"Yeah. They say the amount I gave should save a few lives…" she smiled
nervously.

Adam kissed her. "Good gift." he reassured her, and selected the card from
Gabriel.

A photograph fell out of it when he opened it. When he picked it up, his mouth
opened slightly. "How did you-?"

"Facebook." Gabriel said. "Kind of a…reminder of more innocent days."

Adam nodded, realising that it was the first time he'd seen his own mother's
face in months. Luiza Ares _nee_ Ortega hadn't been an easy woman to get along
with. In fact some days she'd been the bane of his life. But the photograph
really was a happy one, showing off an all-too-rare smile that made it very
obvious why Gabriel had ever fallen in love with her, and it reminded Adam
just for a second that he really did miss her.

He wasn't sure how long he studied the print before he set it down. It was
probably only seconds--it felt like weeks.

He reached over and hugged Gabriel. "Love you, dad."

"Love you too, man." Gabriel said.

**Date Point: Christmas Day, 4y11m2w AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

Christmas on Cimbrean seemed set to become something a little different to the
small, family affair that Ava had been used to on Earth. Given that Christians
were decidedly in the minority among the citizenry of Folctha, it was hardly
surprising that there was a noticeable shortage of nativities and hymns, too.

None of the small congregation at that morning's nondenominational mass had
apparently minded. In fact, the sermon had stressed Matthew 6:5 and its
implications for a Christian abroad in a predominantly secular galaxy. Not
that you should keep your faith to yourself, as such, so much as that your
faith was _yours_, your own little candle to carry. Giving you light and
warmth, but also representing a burden of care, not to let it die and not to
burn down your relationships with.

That…_relaxed_ approach didn't exactly gel with what Ava had learned in Sunday
school. The ideas of Hell and Salvation had always scared her, while, insofar
as Christianity as it was practiced in Folctha could be called a "sect", their
sect's focus on personal fulfillment in this life through a loving
relationship with God, rather than expectation of reward or a stay of
punishment in the next through a regime of worship, spoke to her.

The consensus at discussion over coffee that had followed had broadly been
that in fact a Christian on Cimbrean was free to have a much more personal
relationship with God precisely for those reasons. Most of them confessed to
feeling more spiritually fulfilled than they ever had on Earth. A few
expressed doubts about "reinventing" Christianity, but even those voices were
simply voices of caution, rather than rejection.

The hymns made her feel warm inside, as did Reverend Joanne White's hand on
the top of Ava's head during the blessing.

It was like stepping into another world when they left the Faith Center to
join in the secular festival outside. The size of the cargo jump array had
limited the size of the tree they could import, but it still formed a towering
centerpiece to the town park, decked in lights and ornaments fashioned from
spaceship wreckage or from the by now thoroughly extinct Pinkwood tree.

There was no snow, of course. In fact, it was a warm Cimbrean summer's day,
hence the adoption of a number of Australian Christmas traditions, including
bikinis, barbecues and Bacardi. A dozen engineers from the Byron motor pool--a
motley bunch who had taken the name "_The Alleged Orchestra_" for their
performance--were set up and vigorously arranging every seasonal tune they
could think of on the fly, beating the music into shape until it vaguely fit
their unique instrumentation, which included a Diddley-Bow, a metallophone
made from a set of wrenches, and a Cello that had been recycled out of a
couple of beer kegs. The result was amazingly musical, with a bluesy, jazzy,
energetically raw twist that seemed to be going down well with the revellers.

The Gaoians were watching it all with plain and obvious bemusement, she
noticed. There were a lot of them now, all males, and all seriously throwing
themselves into the practice of meditation with the vigor of a man helping his
child build sandcastles who'd suddenly uncovered a pirate chest. They were
sipping mulled wine and probably enjoying themselves, though they were keeping
out of the way.

There was so much to take in, none of it guided by any specific tradition, but
informed by hundreds. People bringing out their presents to put them in little
piles under the tree. The smells of the town feast being prepared, spices and
dancing and an impromptu _a capella_ rendition of "Fairytale of New York", Sir
Jeremy Sandy in a Santa outfit, the Soldiers versus Civilians tug-o'-war…

Hayley and Mark sitting in a corner, his arms around her waist from behind,
watching their son--Sara's little brother Jack--play with his classmates with
strange expressions that were equal parts happiness and sadness.

There was a sudden pair of arms around her own waist. "Can I interrupt?" Adam
asked her.

Ava glanced down at the camera. She hadn't even been entirely conscious of
taking the pictures. "Sorry."

"Don't be." he took her hand and led her back towards the Alleged Orchestra,
where people were whirling and skipping in circles to the music, linking arms,
bouncing around one another and then spinning off to join up with a new
partner.

She couldn't keep up with him--over the last month he'd gone from quite
athletic to military fit under Legsy's watchful guidance--but she didn't quit
the dance when she couldn't go on any longer. She just de-orbited to its
outskirts, to clap along and cheer and whoop as he enjoyed himself,
occasionally letting herself take a picture.

It was just the start of a day that lasted forever.

**Date Point: Boxing Day, 4y11m2w AV**

**_Adam Ares_**

Adam wasn't yet asleep, but it still took him a couple of seconds to register
the knock on his door.

He sat up a bit "Ava?"

She called through the door. "Can I come in?"

"Sure!"

She'd left the hall light on and leaned against the door frame, backlit by it,
and Adam had to employ some willpower not to stare. She was wearing what
looked a lot like one of his t-shirts, a thin white one. The shirt itself
wasn't blocking any of the light from behind her, and the varying depth of
shadow her body made under it was…

He sat up some more and leaned forward to try and hide what the view did to
him, discreetly bunching a little more blanket on his lap.

There wasn't anywhere else to look though, without actually looking away from
her. If he looked down then he had to contend with her legs, and as for her
face…there was an expression there he couldn't really read--a dark and intense
one.

"Hey, uh… " He said. "You okay?"

"It's gone midnight." she said.

"Oh…uh, happy birthday."

She looked like she was about to say something. Then she shook her head,
stepped onto the bed and hugged him. "Can I sleep here tonight?" She asked.

He scooted over and she dug herself under the blankets and wriggled into his
chest. He smoothed her hair out of the way. "You okay?"

"…I just…" She looked up and kissed him. "It's going to be tough, not having
you around."

He put a hand on the back of her head and held her. "That's going to be the
toughest bit." he agreed.

"You'll write me?"

"Every chance I get."

She puffed out a huge rush of air into his chest and snuggled up against him
even closer. "I love you."

It was a phrase they rarely uttered. A vulnerable, weak little phrase, really.
But that just meant it had so much more meaning for them. "And I love you." he
promised.

He could feel her smile against his chest, and the way she relaxed, and fell
asleep.

She was still there in the morning when he woke up.

**Date Point: 4y11m4w AV**  
**Seattle, Washington, USA, Earth**

**_Adam Ares_**

Leaving home had been hard.

Travelling alone and sleeping alone in an unfamiliar hotel room in an
unfamiliar city full of the kind of traffic that reminded him painfully of San
Diego, and which he'd grown accustomed to the absence of in Folctha, hadn't
made for a good night's sleep.

That, and it was _cold_. January in Seattle versus early summer in Folctha had
been an unwelcome introduction to the joys of a freezing grey drizzle that
seemed to come right off Puget Sound, bent on freezing the whole city. He'd
been tempted to dive for the warmth of his hotel room the second he got off
the plane, but instead he used the hours of daylight and went straight from
the airport to the USAF recruiting office.

That part turned out to be easy. He was in and out inside an hour or so,
having practically had some documents thrust into his hands along with
instructions to attend the Military Entrance Processing Station the next
morning. Apparently, the recruiter had been impressed.

For lack of anything better to do, he took a walk and saw the sights. He'd
have preferred to jog, but he'd worn his good chinos to make an impression for
the recruiter.

He didn't watch the people at first. He watched the architecture, and the
city, taking in the square glassy greyness and the scratchy trees that were no
more than bare twigs in the winter, the overcast-sky openness of the street
plan and the whirr of bicycles. The traffic was familiar, but the city it
crawled around in couldn't have been more different. Cold though it was, he
could see that the plants which seemed to be all over everything would
actually _fit_ here, rather than being aliens imported and maintained at great
effort.

Of course, Seattle meant Starbucks. He knew that much, and eventually he
dropped in on the one on 5th avenue, in the shadow of the monolithic black
Columbia Center.

Mercifully, it was quite warm inside, and he shucked off his jacket--the
rugged, all-weather one that most Cimbrean colonists had, with the "From
Ashes" patch that only Ava shared. He tugged at the T-shirt he was wearing
underneath, aware that it was an old one that, nowadays, was stretched tight
across his chest and shoulders. It was a good shirt for showing off the gym-
fit physique he'd picked up training with Legsy, but not exactly comfortable.

The people-watching skills that Gabriel had taught him prodded him a second or
so later, alerting him to a change.

It was subtle. The young mother in line in front of him had shepherded her
kids forward and was now keeping them in front of the stroller. The older man
in the grey suit next to him scooted his chair forward and around the table a
little. The Barista, on the other hand, was almost certainly sneaking sly
glances at him down the counter.

He tried to ignore it, studying the menu as they crawled toward the counter,
but it was difficult to ignore that the people who joined the line behind him
left arm's length at least, nor the snippet of conversation he could just hear
from a middle-aged couple by the door.

'_No, I don't think so…he doesn't have any tattoos…_'

_That_…shocked him. Upset and surprised him. He fumbled his way through a
clumsy order for a simple Latte, left the change for a tip, and made himself
scarce.

His return walk to the hotel was a solemn and thoughtful one which he spent,
rather than looking up at the buildings, looking down at his feet, lost in
thought and trying to ignore the way people veered out of his path on the
sidewalk.

In the end he spent the evening lurking in his hotel room playing free games
on his phone.

The weather, if anything, got even more dismal overnight, which was in its own
way fortunate because he barely slept, and an early morning jog in the bracing
Washington weather did more to get him alert and ready than all the coffee in
Colombia.

Once wearing clean and dry clothes, he caught a cab to the MEPS, which turned
out to be just one small part of a huge building behind a wall of hedging and
trees, by the railroad track and just north of the airport.It wasn't what he'd
pictured, but he trusted the cab driver, so he refused to allow himself to
dither outside--he headed straight in after paying the fare.

Inside, it wasn't what he'd anticipated either. He'd envisioned more of the
posters and macho imagery that had decorated the recruiting office.

What he instead got was a reception desk in a fairly bland office space. There
were flags and crests up and a general clean and efficient air, but if not for
the uniforms he might have been in a civilian workplace. The reception desk
didn't actually have a human on it, just a series of touchscreens which, on
being prodded, walked him through a quick and simple series of questions about
who he was and what he planned on becoming, asked him to scan the barcode on
the form the recruiter had given him, and then directed him to a printer which
spat out a sticker with a QR code and his name on it, thanked him, and
directed him to wait. There were a lot of chairs for that--Adam paced, pausing
to grab meagre cups of water from the cooler in the corner. He'd barely been
there for five minutes before he started to feel like a zoo lion.

He might have been there half the day before anything interesting started to
happen. A handful of people were sitting and fidgeting alongside him, most
about his age and with their parents in tow, before he was called and directed
to a station where he filled in a form. Then he went back and waited. Then he
was called to another station, where they asked him some questions. Then he
went back and waited, again and again.

By the time it was done he felt both as if he'd never stopped moving, and also
as if nothing at all had happened. He had no idea if it was afternoon or full
evening yet, but eventually he was sat down opposite a handsome man in a blue
shirt with the five stripes of a technical sergeant on his sleeve and the
surname "Foster" on his chest, and had his hand shaken.

"So. You want to be a pararescueman?" the sergeant asked, sitting down.

"I do." Adam agreed.

"Why?"

"The unit motto speaks to me. '_That others may live_'." When Foster just
waited patiently, he felt drawn to elaborate. "I've…I'm from San Diego
originally, I've lost people, and I guess I want to keep others from having to
experience that."

"Have you considered alternatives?"

"Sure. But that's my first choice." Adam said.

"What alternatives did you consider?"

"I guess…security, force protection. Medic…That kinda thing, you know? I was
thinking of being a cop like my dad, before I decided to do this."

"Was there any specific event that changed your mind there?"

Adam nodded. "My friend was murdered. Sara Tisdale? On Cimbrean? I heard it
was a big story back here on Earth for a while…"

Foster nodded. "You have my condolences." he said. "But why did that change
your mind about your choice of career?"

Adam took a deep breath, worried that what he was about to say might sound
paranoid or crazy and ruin his chances then and there, but Powell's advice had
been impossible to misinterpret--speak honestly, always.

"I think…I think there's a pattern at work." he said. "like, everyone knows
that San Diego was destroyed by antimatter, it was in the official
investigation's report. But nobody has that much antimatter on Earth, so there
have to be aliens involved somehow, and who else would want to sabotage
Folctha's spaceport like the guy who shot Sara was trying to? Well, I think
that the military know who's behind it, and I want in. I want to stop them
from hurting anybody else."

"Hmm."

Foster stood. "Stand up, let me have a look at you."

Adam did so.

"look at me." Foster continued. "Raise your arms above your head."

Adam did so, patiently awaiting an explanation. He didn't get one: Foster just
gestured toward a pull-up bar. "See that? Get up on it and show me what you've
got."

Adam almost laughed. He'd been doing reps alongside Legsy in 1.15G in
Folctha's variable-gravity gym for the last month. He shook his limbs loose,
reached up, got his form strictly correct, and set to.

He hadn't even started to feel the burn yet when Foster interrupted him.
"Okay, okay. Get off that thing, put _this_ on and start over."

'_This_' turned out to be a heavy weighted vest. Adam shrugged it on, got back
on the bar, and resumed his pull-ups.

He was finally starting to feel some heat in his muscles when Foster spoke
again. "So, why you?"

Adam dropped off the bar and turned to face him. Foster shook his head. "I
didn't tell you to stop, son." he chided. "Get back up there and keep going."

"Sorry."

Foster watched him resume his form. "So…why you?" he asked.

"What do you mean?" Adam asked him.

"It's a simple question, son. Why you? Why do you think _you_ want this? Why
do you think Pararescue is the right one for you?"

"Well, like I said, the motto."

"Okay, well what makes you think you're right for Pararescue?."

Adam's brow creased as he really started to feel his muscles working. The
weighted vest was making all the difference. "I'm going to work damn hard for
this." he said. "if I have to stay on this…" he grunted "…bar 'til I'm twenty
to prove that, I damn well will."

"You think you can work that hard?"

"I _know_--" the exertion finally started to choke off Adam's words. "--Yeah.
I can." he finished, between pulls.

Foster nodded again and watched him for a few more before finally raising a
hand. "Alright. Rest up."

Adam lowered himself slowly down this time, and massaged his hands. Foster
handed him a glass of cold water as he sat down, which Adam gulped down in one
as the sergeant jotted a few short observations.

"Alright, I think I'm done with you for now." Foster said. "You'll need to go
on through the rest of the MEPS, get your tests done and all that stuff, but
assuming there's no problems there, you'll be coming back here tomorrow to
speak with the special forces recruiter."

Adam beamed. "Thank you!" he said.

"How'd you get here, cab? Where are you staying?"

Adam told him, and Foster nodded. "Right. We'll pick up the bill from here on
in, as well as transport. I'll see you later on today once you're done with
all your tests."

The rest of the day passed in a blur for Adam. He was measured, weighed, had
samples of blood, hair and saliva taken, asked to walk around with one foot on
tip-toe, had puffs of air shot into his eyes by a machine, spent some minutes
with another machine pressing a button whenever he saw lights in his
peripheral vision, a few minutes in a dental chair, filled in forms, answered
questions, took tests. Even the businesslike intimacy of the full medical
examination didn't faze him.

The important part was, that he was past the first hurdle.

**_Technical Sergeant George Foster_**

"Okay, next up for review is…Adam Ares, permanent address…Twenty Delaney Row,
Folctha, Cimbrean. Huh."

"Yeah, we've got ourselves a space cadet here." Somebody joked.

"Space cadet he may be, but he's the real deal." Foster commented. "I put him
on the bar, stopped counting at fifty. He says he was training in supergravity
for a month before coming down here. Looks like the British special forces
garrison there took him under their wing."

"Their CO gave him a reference."

"What's it say?"

"Pretty typical British, really." The sergeant with that file examined the
letter. "To.. blah, blah…'_I'm sending this young man your way with my
professional opinion that he may be of some use to you. Yours sincerely,
Captain Owen Powell_' et cetera. End letter." She smiled, folding it up again.
"You've got to love the Brits, right?"

"Isn't Powell the SBS officer behind the SOR program?" Foster asked. "If he
is, then that's a _glowing_ reference right there."

"That's right."

"Well his opinion seems on the money. The kid's already fit and strong and
he's got exactly the right build for a PJ. So…Unless there's anything wrong
with him, Doc?"

The chief medical examiner studied his own copy of the candidate's notes. "His
bloodwork showed a lot of testosterone…" He commented. "…but I chalk that up
to him being young, fit and eager to prove himself. I see no reason to suspect
steroids or substance abuse. His mother died young in the San Diego blast so
there's no way to know his medical history from her…There's a history of
Glaucoma and Coronary Artery Disease from his paternal grandparents, but his
ECG and intraocular pressures were all fine today. No concerns."

Foster turned to the staff psychologist, Lieutenant Schoemann. "Doctor?"

"…He's angry. Grieving and angry." Schoemann concluded, examining his notes.
"But he's channelling it well, it's motivating him healthily. He's got a long-
term steady girlfriend and he's come to us. That shows drive and an ability to
emotionally commit, and that month of hard training proves that this wasn't a
spur-of-the-moment decision, he's thought about this and prepared for it.
He's…maybe not the most introspective young man I've ever met, but he's not
lacking in intelligence…Overall he's calm, pleasant, confident, intelligent
and well-adjusted, with plenty of healthy aggression. I think he's an
excellent candidate."

"Guess he's one for you, then." Foster commented, turning to Master Sergeant
Wood, the special forces recruiter.

"Absolutely." Wood agreed. "He's a strong PJ candidate, but he's maybe even
good enough for the SOR program."

"You think?"

"It can't be an accident that this Captain Powell gave him a reference like
that." Wood noted. "We'll see how he does tomorrow."

They moved on to the next candidate.

**Date Point: First Contact Day, 5 years AV**  
**Seattle, Washington, USA, Earth**

**_Adam Ares_**

A car came to pick him up, rather than the taxi he'd taken the day before. It
wasn't raining this morning, but the wind was still cold enough to sting the
ears, even through his Gore-Tex beanie.

The driver parked up and got out of the car, which surprised him, as did the
fact that he was wearing sports gear rather than USAF blue. "Adam Ares?"

"That's me."

The driver shook his hand. "Master Sergeant Tony Wood, USAF special forces
recruiter." he said, producing a card to verify his identity.

"Oh! I, uh…thought I'd be meeting you at the MEPS, Master Sergeant."

"You can just call me Sergeant, son. I figured I'd get a look at you in
motion, you up to go for a jog?"

"Sure." Adam had already taken a morning jog, but it had been barely more than
a warmup and stretch, anticipating a day of being put through his paces. He
suspected that Wood had something a little more strenuous in mind.

And so it proved. That month of training with Legsy paid off--jogging on Earth
with no load was different to jogging on Cimbrean with a heavy bag to
compensate for the gravity difference. In many ways it was easier, but Wood
was a tall man with a long, easy stride that ate up the ground, forcing Adam
to take three steps for every two of the sergeant's just in order to keep
pace.

Weirdly, the questions he'd been preparing for didn't materialise. They just
did a double loop round some of the interesting parts of Downtown before
returning to the car, and Adam's ego wilted a little when he noticed that
Wood, although he was steaming up the air with regular, working breaths, had
obviously found the run much easier than he had. Clearly, he still had a lot
of fitness to gain to really make the grade.

"Not bad. Y'ain't fast but next to some of the other kids I've seen…" Wood
congratulated him.

"Thank you, Sergeant."

Wood thumb-pointed to the hotel. "If you want to change, I'll wait in the
car."

"Can I shower too?"

"Sure. Make it quick though, we've got a lot to cram in today."

Adam nodded and ran back to his room for a quick rinse, dry and change job.
Sure enough, when he got back to the car, Wood was pocketing an old-fashioned
digital stopwatch.

He made a mental note: '_Everything is a test_.'

Wood didn't comment as he climbed in, just put an arm on the back of the seat
to turn and reverse out of the parking bay, then merged into city traffic.

"So. Pararescue." he said. "I was a Combat Controller myself, the brother
unit, but I got a lot of respect for the PJs. The training's hell, but they do
a heck of a job."

"Captain Powell said they call it '_Superman School_'." Adam volunteered.

"That they do." Wood took a right turn. "Now, in all honesty, this is
something I don't say to most candidates, I think you've got what it takes to
pass it." he turned right again.

"Thank you." Adam tried not to smile.

"Well, hear me out…" Wood took a third right turn. Adam wasn't sure if he had
a destination in mind--the route was such an inefficient one that he suspected
the sergeant was just driving for the sake of keeping them moving. Fortunately
he didn't turn right again, but sat back and relaxed on a long straight.

"…What if I could offer you something more?" he asked.

"More?"

"Check in the glove box, there's a tablet in there."

Adam did so. When he swiped to turn it on, it filled with what was clearly a
form of some kind. "What's this?"

"Non-Disclosure Agreement." Wood revealed. "You need to read it in full, sign
and give a verbal signature, but the gist of it is that what I'm about to tell
you is classified information and you'll be liable to federal prosecution if
you discuss it with unauthorised persons."

"Okay…" Adam read the document in full, twice, then wrote and signed his name
and, when prompted, carefully enunciated the script that the form displayed
for him. "I, Adam Miguel Ángel Ares, solemnly affirm that I agree to be bound
by the terms and conditions of this non-disclosure agreement."

Wood nodded. "There's a program in the works, something that your Captain
Powell had a hand in masterminding." he said.

"There is?"

"Yup. There was a space battle over Cimbrean about four months ago, you know
about it?"

Adam nodded. "Yeah."

"Well, Captain Powell, and the commanding officers of the two ships involved,
HMS _Myrmidon_ and HMS _Caledonia_, they made a recommendation to the British
Ministry of Defence that specialist skills and training were going to be
required to form the basis of infantry operations in space. The MoD decided to
share the idea with the DoD, and from there it got bumped all around the
Coalition and it's becoming a joint Allied venture."

He took a left turn. "It's being called the Spaceborne Operations Regiment, or
SOR. Currently it doesn't even really exist--it doesn't have any men, the
spacesuits they'd wear are still being designed…but we know two things about
it. The first being that its primary mandate will be frontline combat
operations against the alien organisation which, you're right, nuked San Diego
and murdered your friend."

"So it's real."

"Yup. That's as much as I can tell you for now; even under NDA, you're not
cleared for the details. But you're right, we're fighting a war right now, and
the SOR are going to be the guns in that fight."

"…Alright. What's the other thing?"

"Training will be four years. Minimum. And you'll be under contract for at
least four years after that, so this would be at least an eight year
commitment, if you took it."

"That's…an awful long time."

"Yup." Wood agreed. "We had to jump through hoops to get that contract
approved."

"Would they be doing stuff other than fighting these aliens?"

"Anti-piracy operations, counter-Hunter operations…Most of the time you'd be
operating exactly like any Pararescueman under the aegis of the USAF, so
search and rescue of liferafts and broken ships, humanitarian aid, emergency
medicine. Finally, you'd be a qualified astronaut and that means you might
wind up spending some time on the ISS in some capacity."

"Anything else?"

Wood's jaw moved, thoughtfully. "Yes." he said eventually. "We _think_ we're
going to have to put the candidates on an extremely intensive physical track."

"You are?"

"An armored spacesuit is going to be dang heavy." Wood explained. "Every trick
to make it less so is being considered, but the fact is that Spaceborne
Operators are going to have to be strong, and you especially if you're falling
into the role of Spaceborne Pararescue. You'll need to be able to carry all
your gear plus one of your buddies with HIS gear and suit across long
distances, and given the weights involved, we're not actually sure that
getting you that strong that quickly will even be possible, let alone wise."

"It can be done, though?"

"Sure. The numbers are within the limits of what's humanly possible, but if
we're going to get you that strong inside the duration of your training…At the
very least it'll be difficult, and probably quite dangerous."

Adam sat quietly and ignored whatever route Wood was taking for some minutes.
"I'll…need to think about it." he decided eventually.

"Good." Wood nodded. "If you jumped at the chance, I'd have turned you down on
the spot. You're going to need to be sensible, not impulsive."

"Test passed, huh?"

Wood laughed. "You passed that one, yeah." he agreed. "The decision's not
going to finally land on you for months yet, I just wanted to give you time to
process it."

Adam recognised the trees and rail tracks outside the MEPS as they rounded a
corner. "So, what are we doing for the rest of the day?"

Wood sniffed a little amused noise. "More tests." he said.

"Everybody present? Very well."

Adam straightened. The MEPS had a little ceremonial room, decorated in wood
panelling and rich blue carpet with a selection of flags at the front of the
room on a little dais. He'd been handed a little card full of instructions and
the Oath of Enlistment as he entered, and had taken the time to read it. Some
of the others hadn't.

Now, there was an officer standing on the dais, getting their attention.

"Gentlemen," he said "You will shortly be called to read aloud the Oath of
Enlistment, as written on the card presented to you. There's an alternative
secular version printed on the reverse of the card for those who prefer, and
I'd like to remind you all that the first amendment of the very constitution
that you will now be pledging to support and defend guarantees the right of
all citizens to be free in their own beliefs."

He surveyed them all. "This Oath is binding. Once you have taken it, you will
have formally enlisted in the United States Air Force, so if anybody's getting
cold feet, now's the time to say so."

Nobody did. Adam flipped the card over, double-checked its content, and nodded
to himself, mentally preparing.

The officer smiled, "In that case, we'll be going in alphabetical order…Ares,
Adam."

Adam stepped forward.

"Would you like a Bible, son?"

"No thank you, sir."

"Then raise your hand and recite the Oath."

Adam did so.

"I, Adam Miguel Angel Ares, do solemnly affirm that I will…" he checked the
card "…will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against
all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I…will bear true faith and allegiance
to the same; and that…" he checked the card again "and that I will obey the
orders of the President of the United States and the orders of the officers
appointed over me, according to regulations and the, uh…the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. By my word am I bound."

The officer extended a hand, smiling warmly. "Welcome to the Air Force, son."

"Thank you, sir."

He stepped over to where the officer indicated and waited, not hearing as
"_Himura, Daniel_" was called.

There was no going back, now.

**Date Point: 12 hours later**  
**Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, USA, Earth**

It wasn't exactly night-time when the bus arrived at Lackland AFB, but the sun
was definitely down, leaving only a kind of glowing blue-blackness where the
stars would soon be. It was a warm night, FAR warmer than the early January
climate he'd been exposed to in British Columbia and Washington. It felt more
like Cimbrean, in fact, if not for the gravity. San Antonio in January had a
lot in common with Folctha in summer.

"How the hell big is this base?" somebody muttered after the fifth minute of
the bus rounding corners and driving past darkened buildings. Adam guessed
they were already being hazed, the bus winding around to disorientate them and
make the place seem bigger than it really was. He didn't try to say as much,
just grabbed his bag, ready to leap into action the second the shouting
started.

And start it did. They pulled up outside a low building, the doors opened, and
three men leapt up the stairs and began bawling threats and instructions at
the trainees. Some of the smack-talk was so absurd and witty that Adam almost
wanted to laugh. He resisted the crazy impulse, knowing it would only get him
into trouble if he did.

He was the third or fourth off the bus, lining up alongside the others--he'd
learned their names on the way down but right now it didn't seem so important
to remember them as to try and form a roughly straight line, and set his bag
down in front of him, upright against his legs.

"_Trainee, you pick that bag up and hold it until I say otherwise!"_

Feeling silly and self-conscious, Adam snapped out a "Yes sir!" and grabbed
it, hoisting it easily onto his shoulders. Silly or not, whether or not it
passed muster as a response, one of the other trainees snickered at him for
it, and promptly got rounded on. Adam just stood there, staring directly
forward and holding his bag, trying not to attract any attention.

A face was suddenly inches from his own "_You play any musical instruments,
trainee?_" it demanded.

"No, sir!" The face disappeared.

There was a lot of shouting, much of it…not _insulting_, but certainly
calculated to shake any illusions he may have had about being confident or
ready for this. He tried to stay focused in case any of it was directed at
him. The fact that nobody else rolled up and roared at him suggested that he
succeeded there, and it wasn't long before they were bawled into filing into
the building, assigned their seats at deafening volume, told to stand up, told
to sit down.

Adam could focus on nothing other than making sure he heard and obeyed any
order that was directed at him, responding to them as well he could. It wasn't
long before he found himself at a mess table with a tray in front of him.
There wasn't much on it--a sandwich, a bag of potato chips and a small carton
of orange juice. the sandwich turned out to be frozen solid, the chips were
plain and unsalted, and the juice was watery and unpalatable. He forced it
down as best he could anyway, polishing off the juice and chips before he was
halfway through the sandwichcicle.

There followed a gauntlet of paperwork and questions, being handed things,
having things taken off him, being shouted at for reasons he couldn't quite
fathom, responding with reflexive apologies or acknowledgements.

He managed to retain which Training Flight he was in, at least. Not that he
had a choice--he was forced to repeat the information so many times he doubted
he'd ever forget it. It almost came as a surprise when he sat down on the bus
to the dormitory and found that nobody was shouting for a few quiet minutes.

"What the shit have we got ourselves into?" the trainee next to him muttered
rhetorically, _sotto voce_. Adam didn't answer. He just gripped his bag and
waited for the next order.

Out of the bus, lined up, given a few rules, into the dorms, picking a bed. He
spent five minutes with his finger pressed to his locker, repeating the number
on it until the knowledge was carved into his brain, never to be forgotten. It
was the only moment that stood out of a blur of orders, instructions,
beratements. He span through a cold shower in seconds, liquid soap in hand.
Get wet, step out to let somebody else use it, lather up, step back under to
rinse off, all the time being screamed at to move faster, faster, faster!

When the blur ended, he was lying in bed wearing uncomfortable new clothes and
listening to the others around him try to get comfortable. He was pretty sure
at least a couple were fighting back tears. Plenty, he knew, were repeating
that same question to themselves that he'd heard on the bus: '_What have we
got ourselves into?_'

Adam didn't wonder. Twelve hours of travel and the emotional jolt of leaving
Ava behind had taken so much out of him that he was the first to fall asleep.

**Date Point: 5y AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

Banging on the door summoned Ava out of bed, and she threw on a bathrobe to
answer it.

Cimbrean didn't exactly have a postal service so much as it had Logan Brown,
one of the schoolkids who took it on himself to hand-deliver any parcels and
letters that came through the Jump Array on any given morning.

"Morning, Ava!" he chirped, handing her an envelope covered in USPS stamps and
with the slightly worn feel of having travelled a long way in slightly
careless hands. As soon as he was gone, she practically shredded it in getting
the envelope open and sat down to read.

It wasn't a long letter, but even so it had a rushed, shaky feel to it. Adam's
handwriting--unsurprisingly, for somebody who'd grown up never really needing
it--had never been neat, but now his scrawl was only _just_ legible, and that
with some concentration and puzzle-solving.

"_Hey Ava._

_Not goin to lie this SUCKS I mean I knew it was going to but DAMN!! Its like
a movie in here, I thought those movies were bullshit but we just get yelled
at and bullied and told we're stupid and it doesn't make any sense.
Everythings so weird too everyone looks the same same haircut same clothes
same everything if they werent all taller than me Id think I was lookin in the
mirror everywhere I go._

_Powell was right I really didnt kno wat I was getting myself in to im tired
all the time I keep being yelld at over nothing like they yell at me for not
eating enogh like wtf Im full how do you expect me to eat more theres no
room?!_

_shit they just told me Ive got to put the pen down I love you dont worry ill
be okay its just crazy round here._

_Love--Adam."_

It made for tough reading. She went to school in a low mood.

**Date Point: 5y1wAV**  
**Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, USA, Earth.**

**_Adam Ares_**

"**_Alright trainees this is your morning wake up call I want you out of those
beds and at attention before the end of this sentence, Get up! Get up and
stand at attention!!_**"

Responding to the daily indignity of being shouted awake had become a reflex,
and Adam was already scrambling out from under his blankets by the end of the
word "trainees".

It was only around about the word "beds" that a horribly familiar pressure in
his boxer shorts finally infiltrated his awareness as his morning wood made
itself known. Several of the rest of the training flight had noticed and were
fighting to keep a straight face, while his own face slowly turned pink.

Not for the first time, he regretted accepting the first bunk he'd found,
right next to the MTI's office, because there was no time for it to go down.
Technical Sergeant Lake was already progressing down the dorm, on the lookout
for ANYTHING he could criticize.

He paused by Adam, who swallowed, awaiting the humiliation that was surely
imminent, but instead, Technical Sergeant Lake's voice was calm and quiet,
amused even.

"Trainee, you have my sympathies, but you need to be standing at attention."
he chided, very gently. "So you do that, and you don't worry about anything
else."

"Yes, SIR!" Adam choked out, and forced himself to stand fully upright,
thanking the Lord that nobody, _nobody_ could possibly have remained hard in
these circumstances.

Technical Sergeant Lake--who was _always_ thought of and referred to as
Technical Sergeant Lake, and addressed with the loudest "SIR!" that the
trainee could muster--nodded and carried on, leaving Adam to compose himself.

The next trainee was unfortunate enough to be making a desperate little
chewing motion to try and keep a straight face, and Technical Sergeant Lake
rounded on him like a terrier on a mouse.

"**_Trainee, do you find this amusing?!_**" he demanded, screaming the
question at most an inch from the culprit's nose.

The luckless trainee's expression sobered instantly. "No, SIR!"

"**_Were you perhaps trying to get a good look then? Is that the first time
you've seen a warhorse, Trainee?!_**"

Adam's eyes shut themselves of their own accord just for a second, and he
_knew_ that his face must have gone as red as tabasco. If the whole base had
been hit by a meteorite at that moment, he would have welcomed it.

"N-no--" the trainee began.

"**_I DID NOT ORDER YOU TO SPEAK, AND IF I HAD I WOULD EXPECT YOU TO SOUND OFF
LIKE A MAN!!_**" Technical Sergeant Lake roared. "**_Front leaning rest
position!_**"

The trainee instantly hit the floor and held himself there, ready. Technical
Sergeant Lake directed a glare around the room that could have boiled steel.
"**_If anybody else cares to comment on your fellow trainee's gift, get it out
of your system!_**" he ordered. Nobody so much as twitched. "**_Outstanding!
Trainee!_**" he addressed the young man on the floor. "**_Push the Earth until
I say otherwise!_**"

He turned to check on Adam, whose composure had now recovered somewhat,
grunted, and strolled through the dorm, taking his time over it. "**_Make your
beds!_**" he ordered. Then, to the trainee on the ground: "**_Trainee,
recover! And since you're so enamoured of our warhorse here, you can help him
make HIS bed first! JUMP TO!!_**"

Adam threw himself into the chore, grateful for something to do. The relief at
being able to finally get started with a day's training rather than dwell on
his embarrassment was huge.

By the time they had showered and there was food in front of him, he'd almost
completely forgotten that it had happened.

"So hey, Warhorse."

Adam's bunk-mate was John Burgess, and the two had bonded quickly over
learning that they shared some San Diego experience. Burgess had lost family
to the '_Big One',_ the quake that had crippled the south side of Los Angeles
in the aftermath of the detonation, when their house had collapsed. He'd been
one of the few who had managed to keep a straight face that morning.

"Ah, fuck, you're not going to start calling me that, are you?"

"Hey, man, it fits! I mean, DAMN! You're a fuckin' grower!"

This prompted a round of laughter, cat-calling and good-natured hollering,
while Adam was yanked back to the morning's embarrassment with a cringe. "Oh
fuck, come on, _really?_" he protested.

Burgess just grinned. "I'm just sayin' man, no wonder your girl writes you so
much!"

"Fuck you, man." Adam told him, though it was said with a smile.

"No, please!" Burgess threw up his hands in mock defense. "I wouldn't
survive!"

"You're one to talk!" one of the others chimed in. "We've all seen you in the
shower, the fuck are you smuggling in that sack, grapefruits?"

"Man, they ain't _that_ big!"

Adam snorted. "Like fuck they aren't. You used to pitch for your school team,
right? We should start calling you Baseball."

Burgess frowned at him. "_No!_" he asserted.

"Too fucking late, brother." one of the others asserted. "You call him
Warhorse, you get called Baseball. All's fair in love and war."

There was general snickering at that one as the newly-christened '_Baseball_'
wilted. "…shit." he declared.

Adam laughed. Being able to share the experience of an embarrassing nickname
was taking some of the sting out. "Guess we'd better get used to it." he said.

**Date Point: 5y1w4d AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

As Cimbrean's population had ballooned with the influx of Byron workers, the
school had expanded with it, hiring a second teacher and splitting into three
"grades". The oldest of which, for the time being, consisted solely of Ava. It
was a bit lonely at the top, but the lack of distraction had allowed her to
really focus on her studies.

Still, she was grateful for being checked up on. Jessica Olmstead had assumed
responsibility for the middle group and mostly left Ava to educate herself,
intervening only to recommend a syllabus and make sure that everything was
going well--mostly, what lessons she gave to Ava these days revolved around
study techniques and how to learn and self-organise, rather than conveying
subject-specific information.

"Is that another letter from Adam?" she asked, sitting down.

Ava nodded. "Yeah, he gets to send me one a week, this is the fourth one.
Logan delivered it on the way in to school."

"It's a shame you can't have phone calls."

"Yeah. I really miss just hearing his voice…" Ava looked at the letter,
longingly.

"Could I-?" Jessica asked. "I mean, not if it's too personal, but I'd like to
know how he's getting on."

Ava nodded, knowing that Adam's letters never contained anything
embarrassingly intimate, and she slit the letter open with a fingernail,
unfolding it onto the desk.

"_Hey Ava_" she read aloud. "_I think I'm starting to do okay now. Our TI said
on like day one that if he was using the word stupid it's because we're doing
stupid stuff, and that's really started to sink in now, I'm starting to get
it."_

"_Things aren't what you'd call easy, but we've kind of got into the rhythm
now. There's no time to stop, everything's all go, there's no downtime, and
whenever I get to feeling like I really want just a few minutes to relax, we
just get pushed harder and it turns out I didn't need the break after all.
Nobody's allowed to hide in the back and let it all happen to other people, I
thought I could at first, like if I just shut up and did as I was told I'd
breeze through this and not get yelled at, but that doesn't work because they
still pick up on what you're doing wrong and fix it. They don't let us coast
along, it's all push, all the time."_

_And now I actually kind of enjoy being yelled at now. Is that weird? If I'm
being yelled at it means I fucked up_" she stopped reading and shot a glance
at the younger kids. "Uh, sorry Jess."

Jessica giggled "It's okay. Go on."

"…_It means I blanked up and I don't want to blank up. Being yelled at means
the TI's got my back, he wants to help me not blank up in future. So when he
yells at me, he's helping me."_

"_They've made me Guidon bearer, it's kind of cool but I have to carry this
thing on runs and salute with it and it's heavy as-_" she cleared her throat
"…_as blank._"

"_That's my fifteen minutes, lots of love to Dad and even more for you._"

_Love, Adam."_

Jessica sat back. "Wow." she said. "He sounds…different already."

"Yeah." Ava agreed, quietly.

"…are you okay with that?"

Ava folded the letter again. "I guess I have to be." she said.

Jessica inclined her head--Ava had sounded genuinely philosophical rather than
resigned or bitter. "What do you mean?"

"There's…" Ava sighed, and sat back, running a hand through her hair. "Like,
there are so many things I can't change. I sure as heck couldn't change Adam's
mind about this, if I could he wouldn't _be_ Adam. So what's the point in not
being okay with them?"

"That's…true, I guess." Jessica conceded.

"Yeah…" Ava looked down at the letter. There was a sharp _tap_ as a wet patch
appeared on it and she scrubbed furiously at her face.

"Ava, if you need some time alone… " Jessica offered.

This earned her a brave little smile, and a headshake. "I'm…No, I just need
to, to focus on the things I _can_ change. That's all."

"…Okay. You let me know if you need anything, okay?"

Ava just nodded her gratitude, set the letter aside, and returned to reading
the textbook she'd chosen.

Jessica went to make herself a cup of tea, and didn't return until she was
absolutely certain none of the kids would see that she'd been crying.

"_Hey Ava,"_

"_Big news: I got told today Im going to be honor graduate!"_

"_Theres so much Id like to write here, about what Ive been through. My head
just feels full of ideas all settling into place at last. Theres just no way I
could cram it all into 15 minutes so Im not even going to try. Its so weird
Week 0 feels like it was yesterday and like it was years ago at the same time
I wonder if youll even recognize me?"_

_I cant wait to see you. Ive missed you so much, its going to be unreal seeing
you again."_

_--Adam._"

**Date Point: 5y 2m AV**  
**Lackland AFB, San Antonio, Texas, USA, Earth**

**_Ava Rios_**

"Okay, I can't see him."

Ava gave Gabriel a teasing smile. "You don't recognise your own son?" She
asked.

"I'm looking right at the guy carrying the flag at the front of his flight,
and that's _not_ my son, I'd swear to it." Gabriel protested.

"It's Adam." She promised. "Right height and build, right face."

"He moves differently."

There was a deep-throated chuckle from Gabe's left. "It's called '_marching_'
mate." Powell told him. The captain had declined to share his reasons for
attending the graduation, but in any case he stood out less than Ava would
have guessed. His wasn't even the only non-US uniform present. In any case,
Powell had a remarkable ability to stand still, watchful and quiet and slip
people's attention when he wanted to. He was scanning the few hundred trainees
in the parade with a cool, level stare that took in the details. "Your lad's
an Airman now."

Gabe frowned at him. "He's…still the same person under it all though, right?"

"Even better." Powell said. "Trust me, he's the same bloke under it all, but
he'll be sharper now, more confident. Probably in a bloody good mood, too."

Gabriel looked back and squinted. Ava guessed that he was trying to connect
the buff, buzz-cut creature of precision and intensity in front of them with
some earlier vision of Adam, most likely the wiry, shy guy from school that
she'd first started dating.

Those two people didn't seem to have a lot in common, but it was definitely
Adam. She'd spent too long staring at that face to mistake it.

"Do you think he can do it?" She asked Powell. "Pararescue, I mean?"

The captain nodded. "He can." he said. "That's not to say he _will_, mark you,
but he's in with as good a shout as anyone can have."

"What happens if he drops out?"

"Personally, I'd bet against that." Powell commented. "But if he does, he does
and I'll bloody respect him for giving it a go. There's plenty else he could
do, and all of it would be a walk in the bloody park after dropping out of the
pipeline."

"I guess it's better to know where your limits are and acknowledge them than
fake it." Ava guessed. Powell bobbled his head a little, indicating yes-and-
no.

"True. But you _can't_ fake it wi' that kind of training." he said. "That's
_why_ it's so hard. But your fella's got a superman button, miss. Poke him the
right way and he'd spit in God's eye to get the job done. I reckon if his
trainers know their business--and I'm pretty bloody sure they do--they'll have
figured that out already."

"I never knew." Gabriel said softly. They both looked at him. His eyes were
shining with a mixed bag of pride and something else that Ava couldn't quite
identify.

Powell clapped him on the shoulder. "Only the beginning." he promised.

Gabe acknowledged that with a nod, and didn't comment further, so neither did
Ava nor Powell until the parade was done and the gathered airmen had been
given a rousing congratulation and freed to see their families and visitors.

Ava took first dibs on greeting Adam, throwing herself into an enthusiastic
hug that turned out to be like tackling a wall. He hadn't grown in size much,
but Adam's muscles had clearly toned and hardened under that uniform, and he
lifted her as if they were still on Cimbrean.

He murmured into her ear. "Miss me?"

"You know I did." she replied, and kissed him.

Gabe interrupted them by hugging them both. "I hardly recognised you." he
said.

"It's the haircut, right?" Adam grinned.

"And the body language, all that stuff." Gabe replied. "You move more like he
does." He jerked a thumb over his shoulder at Powell, drawing Adam's attention
to the older Marine's presence for the first time. Adam hastily extracted an
arm from the hug and saluted.

Powell returned it but said nothing, indicating with a wry expression and a
tilt of his head that Adam should focus on his family first.

They fussed over him for a few minutes longer before Gabriel finally suggested
that Adam should discuss whatever business it was that Powell had brought with
him. He in turn was then dragged into the discussion by dint of being
Cimbrean's security chief, leaving Ava to stand alone for a little while.

Adam even _listened_ differently now, she noticed. Feet shoulder-width apart,
hands clasped behind him, attention totally on whatever it was that Powell was
saying.

"So, you must be Ava."

She was being addressed by another new airman, a young, acne-scarred African-
American man who offered her a hand to shake. "Warhorse said a lot about you."

She shook it. "Warhorse?"

"Your boy Adam there. That's his callsign."

"He never mentioned that…"

"Eh, he hates it." The airman grinned. "Did he mention me? John Burgess, I'm
going into the PJ pipeline with him."

"Yeah, he did!" Ava nodded. "Nothing but good things."

"I hope so, motherfucker took the top bunk over me for eight weeks!" He
laughed, then self-censored. "Uh, sorry. Bleep."

"It's no problem. So…Warhorse?"

"Couple'a reasons. Your boy can carry _anything_, he's strong as shit, put a
bag on him and he'll run all day. So, we _could_ have called him Packmule,
but…y'know with a name like Ares…"

"Makes sense." Ava agreed, grinning.

"Now the _other_ reason is--"

"Goddammit Baseball, don't you tell her!" Adam returned in time to gently
clamp his hands over Ava's ears. She giggled and wriggled free.

"Aww come on man, I've GOT to meet the girl brave enough to take _you_ on."

Ava frowned at him, ignoring whatever it was Adam was so desperate about.
"Brave?"

Burgess grinned. "you know? The pants monster? Your boy here's morning wood
damn near took my eye out from across the room!"

"Wh-wow, really?" She'd seen Adam naked before of course, but that had been
swimming, and he hadn't been at anything like…full…

She censored her own mental film reel.

'_Baseball_' paused, then grimaced. "Ah. Shit. You, uh…didn't know?"

Ava shook her head. Adam just glared.

"So you two haven't-?"

Now _both_ of them glared.

"…I'll, uh," Burgess backed away, pointing generally over his shoulder. "I'll
see you at the start of Indoc, brother."

"I'ma kick your ass worse than the PT." Adam warned him, though there was a
hint of amusement under the warning.

"I deserve it!" Burgess declared, and left them in peace.

Adam snorted and caught Ava's gaze. She was studying him with a grin of her
own pulling at her cheeks, threatening to burst out into laughter, and it
started to pull even harder when her eyebrows raised themselves at him.

He cleared his throat. "He's…exaggerating."

Her eyes flicked downwards. "Guess I'll just have to see for myself sometime."

She allowed the smile to finally break out in full once her back was turned.
Never mind the uniform, the haircut and the precision, his expression in
response to _that_ had been pure old-school Adam.

It was good to know he was still essentially himself.

**_Adam Ares_**

Gabriel was treating them to dinner, while Powell had made his apologies and
jetted back North to return to Folctha. Adam and Ava sat together in the back
seat of Gabe's rented SUV on the drive into San Antonio proper, holding hands
and talking quietly.

"Okay, so…why '_Baseball_'?" she asked eventually.

"Couple of reasons."

"One cool, one embarrassing?"

"That's pretty much it, yeah." Adam nodded. "Burgess can _throw_. Says he was
pitcher for his school team, and when we were practicing with dummy
grenades…yeah."

"And the embarrassing?"

"Baseball. For…more or less the same reason I'm Warhorse. I don't have to draw
you a picture, do I?"

She laughed. "Please don't!"

"We're here." Gabriel announced. He'd pulled the car into the parking lot of a
steakhouse called "The Barn Door" which he'd looked up using the excuse '_when
in Rome…_'

It didn't take long to seat them, in a low-lit corner with a good view of some
rodeo photographs and the two-foot flames on the grill.

"So." Gabriel broke the silence once they were seated and had glanced at the
menus. "That was Basic, huh?"

"Yeah." Adam agreed. "Weird, it seemed really hard at the time but now…I mean,
I'd find it easy if I had to go through that a second time."

"Eager to get on with PJ training?"

Adam smiled sheepishly. "Dreading it." he said. "But, yeah. I said to Powell
when he tried to warn me about it, y'know, people _do_ pass it, and…it'll be
tough, but I'm gonna be one of them."

Their waitress showed up. "Get y'all some drinks, folks?" she asked.

"Iced tea, please." Gabe requested.

"Coke?" Adam asked.

"Sure! And for you honey?" she asked, addressing Ava.

"Diet coke, please."

"Okay! Y'all ready to order, or do you need a few minutes?"

They looked around, determined that they were, and ordered the 24oz
porterhouse for Adam, a catfish fillet for Ava and the Tenderloin for Gabriel.
She gathered the menus.

"Okay! My name's Rose, if y'all need anything just make eye contact and I'll
be right over to help. Drinks comin' up!"

"So what happens after indoc?" Ava asked, once Rose had gone.

"Airborne training, survival, diving, mountaineering, medical training…"

"I mean," she interrupted, "After all that, too. Are you going to be on
Cimbrean, or…?"

"Maybe." Adam said. "I've got some career choices coming up, and if it all
goes right then hopefully I will, but if I'm not…"

"You two'll just have to figure it out." Gabe told them.

Their drinks arrived, and they chatted amiably about Cimbrean and the progress
of the Reclamation Project.

Ava was in the middle of explaining how Byron group planes were soon going to
carpet-bomb the Scar with saplings and seeds in shaped canisters that should
embed in the ground and then rot away, spilling Terran plants into soil that
had been hugely enriched by the same fungal and microbial action that had
killed the native flora and fauna, when the main courses arrived.

She boggled at Adam's steak. "Where the hell are you going to _put_ that?" she
demanded.

Adam just grinned and tucked in. "I'm a food vacuum nowadays." he said, and
devoured a cube of medium-rare beef.

Gabe clicked his tongue disapprovingly in the side of his mouth. "Enjoy it,
_Amigo!_" he chided. "Take your time!"

"I AM enjoying it!" Adam reassured him, after swallowing. "That's why there's
so much of it!"

Ava giggled, then stood up. "I'll be right back." she said, and vanished in
the direction of the ladies' room.

Adam was still watching her backside when Gabe tapped him on the upper arm.
"Hey, Adam. Man talk for a second, while she's gone. Okay?"

Adam blinked at him. "What's up?"

"I love you both very much, right? I'm hoping for a future where you two have
got a couple of beautiful kids, and…"

"_Dad_… "

"Shut up and listen, man." Gabe sighed. "That's just what I want, okay? If you
want different, fine. But tell me honestly--if you're serious about her, then
that's the kind of thing you need to think about. _Are_ you serious about
her?"

"Totally." Adam said, firmly.

"Good, because she's serious about you too." Gabe nodded, though his
expression was still concerned. "Just…be careful, alright? You're looking at
two, three years of only getting to see each other every other month on a long
weekend, or something. That's going to be difficult."

"We know. We talked about that." Adam promised.

"And?"

"And…" Adam trailed off, then shrugged.

"Adam, I'm proud of you right now, but don't be dumb about this, okay? You can
still be honor graduate and all that stuff and still fuck up your love life.
Don't…" it was Gabriel's turn to pause, searching for the right turn of
phrase. "Don't forget to…"

"Dad. She's tough. We've talked this over together, and…we'll get through."
Adam reassured him.

"I know she's tough. You both are. I just…" Gabriel sighed and gave up. "I
just hope you're both as tough as you think you are. Okay? I don't want you to
wind up hurting each other."

"We love you too, Dad."

Gabe gave him a sidelong hug. "Good to know." he said. "I just needed to get
that said."

Adam nodded. "It's heard. But…I'm sure we're fine. After everything that's
happened…"

"You never heard about the last straw that broke the camel's back, _Amigo_?"

Adam frowned. "She's said she can cope. That's good enough for me, Dad."

Gabe sat back with an uncomfortable expression. "How--" he began, then paused.
"She--"

Adam waited for him to finish. Or even get started. In the end Gabe just shook
his head and hugged his son again.

"Alright, _Amigo_. If that's good enough for you…"

**Date Point: 5y 2m 3w AV**  
**Dominion Embassy Station, Earth/Moon L1 Point, Sol.**

**_Doctor Anees Hussein_**

"So this is Cruezzir?"

The Corti ambassador raised a hand. "Not…quite." he revealed. "The Directorate
was dead set against the idea of your species acquiring the original Cruezzir
drug. In fact, we are now discontinuing it, and strongly advise that should a
sample of the original fall into your possession, you should destroy it."

"We will…take that under advisement." Doctor Hussein assured him. "Though in
that case, what is this on your desk?"

"A derivative, specifically designed for the human market with the intent of
avoiding some future pitfalls."

"What pitfalls?"

Medra inclined his head in a strange way, as if reading something only he
could see. "Used correctly--as a topical or therapeutic target injection,
rather than permanently marinating the patient's system in it--Cruezzir has no
side effects whatsoever. _Non_e." he revealed. "It is, I dare say, a
masterpiece creation of the Directorate's biolabs. That factor alone was
sufficient for our anthropological researchers to take exception to giving you
access to it."

Hussein frowned. "I don't follow you." he said. "Where is the problem with a
medicine that has no side-effects?"

Medra mimicked a thin-lipped, prim smile. "Doctor, if I have learned one thing
about your species these last few years, it is that, if dirt were edible, you
would all be obese."

"…I see."

"No insult is intended, you understand. You are from a dangerous world, I can
only assume that to use and stockpile resources as rapaciously as you do was a
necessary survival instinct for your genetic forebears."

"As a medicine, though… " Hussein protested.

"We are not satisfied that it would _remain_ a simple medicine. You already
know of the one nicknamed the "Human Disaster", which means in turn that you
also how to synthesize Cruezzir in industrial quantities. All you need is a
sample of the drug itself." Medra gestured oddly: it took  Doctor Hussein a
second to recall from his studies of alien body language that the gesture
indicated concern. "We fear that Cruezzir injections and patches would become
commonplace, even the norm, taking an already imposing species and making the
pinnacle of your physical potential _trivial_ to attain, rather than a
lifelong pursuit which precludes the study of other, more…_cerebral_
endeavors."

Hussein considered his Corti counterpart for a second. "You make it sound like
you want us to remain below our potential."

"_Your_ potential, doctor, is already intolerably ahead of any other
species'." Medra countered. "If some semblance of balance and fairness are to
be retained for the rest of us, then you must either be encouraged to remain
below your potential, or else encouraged into isolation. The failure of that
latter strategy is why the Directorate has appointed _me_."

"To keep us down."

"To remind you that you _need_ to be kept down." Medra had at least perfected
the knack of returning a human's stare. Most aliens instinctively looked away.
"Or shall I point to the ecological grafting you are performing at great
expense on Cimbrean to remind you of that fact?"

"I believe you just did."

"Indeed."

Medra picked up the phial on his desk again. "_This_ version, this Cruezzir
derivative, contains a limiting factor--resistance. Over time, any human who
regularly uses it will steadily, but slowly, become increasingly immune. There
are a few other changes, mostly designed to prevent the drug from being
synthesized by your symbiotic bacteria but…suffice it to say we feel less
uncomfortable releasing _this_ for you to use than the medicine for which you
actually asked. There will be no more _Human Disasters_ with this derivative."

He gestured out of the window, toward the Earth. From the L1 point where the
Dominion embassy was anchored, it filled a respectable portion of the sky. "I
believe your ancestry comes from a region responsible for the myth of a
'_jinn_', doctor?"

"Close enough." Hussein conceded, diplomatically refraining from commenting
that, as the Holy Quran had it, _jinn_ were perfectly real.

"According to that myth, the '_jinn_' would grant wishes, but would twist the
wishes according to a literal interpretation of their wording, to the wisher's
detriment." He offered the phial. "We, doctor, are twisting the wish according
to a sensible interpretation of its _intent_, to the wisher's and our own
mutual benefit."

Hussein considered his options, then gave up and took the phial. "In that
case," he said "having read the trade agreement and been advised on it…we
accept the terms."

They shook on it. Gently.

**Date Point: 5y 2m 4w AV**

_Hey Ava_

_I've only got three words to say about Indoc so far: Holy fucking SHIT._

_This is really bringing me back down to earth._

_I'm going to get through it though. No matter what._

_Thinking of you,_

_--Adam_

**Date Point: 5y 4m AV**

_Hey Ava,_

_Im sorry Ive not written you since last week. I did get your letter and I
hope you know Id have written back if I could Ive just been too thrashed to
even pick up a pen. Really the PT here is that hard. Im talking 20 solid hours
of calisthenics…when there feeling kind. I swear Im not exaggerating._

_Getting a reward today though--a good long letter session a whole hour!
Everyone else is calling home or whatever but for me…wow just getting some
quiet time to sit and think and write to you is like I never imagined Id think
something so simple was such a big deal. I spent half of it just sitting and
thinking and getting my head sorted out._

_You know I said in one of my letters from basic that I kind of enjoy being
shouted at now? Well that's still true its hard to explain but if Im being
shouted at then its kind of a compliment because the MTL knows I can do better
and hes telling me so. I mean actual words of encouragement are nice too dont
get me wrong but I can see now that it wouldnt get anybody through this._

_There training us for the very worst you know? They want to be able to send
us into anything and have us be strong enough that if we fail it was never
possible in the first place. And theres no way to do that except the way they
do it. Theyve been doing it for years they know what theyre doing here and I
know that I can make it through this._

_So yeah I hurt basically all the time Im tired basically all the time Im so
wired that just getting a whole HOUR of quiet time feels like the biggest
luxury in the world…but dont be sad for me baby because underneath it all I
think Im actually kind of enjoying myself._

_If that sounds weird…maybe it is I dont know?_

_I still struggle to eat enough. There giving me like 10 000 calories a day or
something insane like that thats a heck of a lot of food and with me not being
a big guy some days its almost harder to get all of that food to fit in my
belly than it is to do the actual PT._

_Itd help if it was Dads waffles or something. A taste of home you know? I
dont care how full I am if I had a plate of those right now they'd be gone. I
know they were store-bought ones but it still counts as home cooking right?_

_I love you. I miss you every day and I think the reason is that for all the
really big shit thats happened in the last few years youve been there through
it all. The hardest part by a mile has been learning how to go through
something this huge without you._

_Im kinda sorry for that._

_--Adam X_

**Date Point: 5y 4m 2d AV**

"Airman Ares!"

Mail call had become the best part of Adam's day, enough so to shake the ache
right out of his abused muscles.

_Dear Adam,_

_Baby, you're not going through this without me: I read all your letters, and
I write you back every time, but it's not just that._

_I may not be there with you doing the PT or whatever. But I pray for you
every day, I think of you every minute, and knowing you're thinking of me even
with what you're going through is what helps me too. You've been there for ME
through all the really big shit of the last few years too, you know that?_

_I feel lonely a lot. No you, no Sara, no Hayley…I love_ (here Ava had written
the word 'your' and then scribbled over it) _Dad, but you can't have a social
life of just one person._

_I guess we're both learning how to cope with just being there for each other
in spirit rather than in person, huh?_

_But believe me corazon, that's all we need. I'm so proud of you._

_--Ava ♥_

Adam was smiling as he folded the letter up. "Good letter."

"She ain't here, bro. You're talking to yourself again." Baseball grinned at
him.

"Beats your company." Adam retorted, grinning back.

"Only company your midget ass gets is my belt buckle anyways, so that ain't
that surprising."

"Hey that was almost witty. Must be 'cause you sat down, I _know_ your brain
doesn't get enough oxygen at ten thousand fucking feet when you stand up."

Burgess beamed and stuck out a fist. "Motherfucker."

Adam completed the fist pound. "Asshole."

They were interrupted by the MTL, who entered the barracks and announced a
briefing and lecture in ten minutes.

"What now?" Baseball wondered aloud.

They found out when they settled into their seats in the lecture hall six
minutes later. There was the usual rigmarole of standing when the presenting
officer--a Lieutenant with the surname "Reed" on his chest--entered.

"Be seated." he ordered, and six backsides met chair. There was a minute or
two of patient waiting while he entered his login and password and called up
some files.

"This is a confidential, code-word SACRED STRANGER briefing. You will not
share this material with anyone not possessing need-to-know for SACRED
STRANGER." Reed began. "Is that understood?"

There was a chorus of "Yes sir."

"Good."

Reed loaded up a presentation slide and Adam groaned inwardly. '_Death by
Powerpoint_' was a running military gag that he had so far been blessed to
suffer only mildly from. He hoped that streak of good fortune would continue.

"Seven months ago," Reed stated, lingering on the first slide, "The British
Royal Navy's two captured and refitted alien starships engaged in a skirmish
with the Hunter blockade around Cimbrean. They acquitted themselves well in
the battle, which was fought to rescue the crew of a refugee freighter who had
unwittingly blundered into the Hunter fleet. You should all be familiar with
the Hunters, if anybody here requires a refresher, raise your hand."

Nobody did.

Reed gave a shallow, satisfied nod and continued. "During the battle, a
Special Boat Service team led by one Captain Owen Powell boarded the freighter
and extracted its surviving crew. The operation was a resounding success, but
Captain Powell and the commanding officers of HMS _Myrmidon_ and HMS
_Caledonia_ recommended to the Ministry of Defence that a review be conducted
into the requirements and viability of a dedicated force of spaceborne special
operators capable of extravehicular activity, or EVA."

"That review was shared with the Department of Defence and the Pentagon and
the result is that we are now founding an international joint unit,
provisionally known as the Spaceborne Operators Regiment, or SOR."

"This is an initiative that's still in its infancy. No commanding officers, no
operators, no gear, no crest or motto, nothing." He continued. "Its mission,
however, is already well-understood. The SOR would serve to defend and protect
the people and interests of Earth, Cimbrean and any future colonies which may
arise from extraterrestrial threats. It will conduct search-and-rescue of
stations and starships that become adrift or damaged, will provide
humanitarian aid to castaways and those affected by disaster, and will be
available to defend stations and large ships, as much as is possible, from
Hunter strikes and piracy. These missions will also benefit the human race
through propaganda, through the Dominion Development Credit bounties that are
awarded for recovering liferafts, and by securing extraterrestrial technology
from derelicts."

He paused. "I should note, gentlemen, that when I mention '_extraterrestrial
threats_', I refer to any and all enemies of our species, including the alien
force responsible for the destruction of San Diego, the exact nature of which
is deemed need-to-know."

Adam and Burgess exchanged glances.

Reed advanced the slideshow. It was now dominated by something that looked
like a hybrid of a NASA spacesuit and an Interceptor body armour system,
though sleeker than either.

"The defining equipment of Spaceborne Operators will be their Extra-Vehicular
Military Action Space Suit, or EV-MASS. This has been designed by private-
sector experts from the Hephaestus LLC on Ceres who hold records for most and
longest extravehicular activity, working alongside experts from CQC Limited,
who produce the Osprey Armor System."

"Now, you've all been given a brief introduction to the SOR concept. A full
briefing of this system and its capabilities, variants and requirements will
be saved for those of you who choose to commit to joining the program. For now
the important point is this: the EV-MASS is a fully functioning spacesuit
designed to allow the operator to engage the enemy in the vacuum of space and
maneuver in zero-gravity. That combined functionality means that it has a base
weight of one hundred and three pounds, before gear and accessories."

There was no breach of discipline as such, but all six of the PJ candidates
exchanged glances. They were all strong enough to wear and use a suit that
heavy, thanks to the intensive physical training of the pipeline, but doing so
would _suck_. Remaining agile and mobile for prolonged periods under the
combined weight of that suit and their bags, gun, equipment and maybe even a
patient, who might even be wearing the same suit and all of _their_ gear, all
added up to a daunting prospect.

One of them put his hand up, and Reed pointed to him, inviting him to ask his
question.

"Sir, if a man wearing one of those has to carry one of his buddies, that's
gotta be, uh…six hundred pounds at least. Hell, it could be a lot more. How's
anybody supposed to hump that kind of weight any kind of a serious distance?"

Reed acknowledged the question's validity with a nod. "It's a big ask." he
agreed. "The suit does contain some passive load-bearing structures which will
help, but the operators wearing it will need to be exceedingly strong. Which
is why we're coming to you now, with…this."

He closed the slideshow and opened a video.

"This is footage of Lance-Corporal Aaron Baxter, United States Marine Corps.
Baxter was involved in a vehicle collision during a training exercise two
weeks ago, and suffered a, uh…" Reed checked his notes, pronouncing the
medical terminology slowly and with care. "A…posteriorly displaced…open comm-
in-uted…intra-articular tibial plateau fracture with an…intimal tear of the
…pop-lit-e-al artery."

He looked up. "As I understand it, that basically means the poor bastard's
knee got flattened and everything broke into little bitty bits."

Everybody grimaced.

"Right, you understand." Reed noted, nodding. "This is a crippling injury, a
career-ender. That knee's never going to be the same again, and if he escapes
amputation, getting it working again even half-normally is going to involve
probably a prosthetic joint, and certainly a lot of physiotherapy and rehab.
Ordinarily, Baxter would be out of a job and living on his VA benefits and
medical care. Fortunately for him, he came along at exactly the right moment
to be the guinea pig for a new medicine purchased from Extraterrestrial
sources."

While the footage of Baxter continued on one half of the screen, the other
half began a quick animation detailing the origins and capabilities of the
drug. "It's called Cruezzir-Derivative Compound A, but for the purposes of
common usage, we're calling it Crue-D. Don't ask me how, but it hugely
accelerates and improves the healing process." Reed continued. "Baxter went
under the knife to have all those little bitty bits put back together and the
plumbing fixed, and while they were at it, he let them inject this stuff right
in there."

On the screen, Baxter's dressings were being removed. "This is him only thirty
hours after the operation. Notice, there's no surgical wound, nor a scar from
the open fracture. That had closed up by the six hour mark, and If they'd put
sutures in him, they'd have had to operate to get them back out again.
Fortunately they foresaw that and only clamped the wound and compressed it.
But when they X-rayed the kneecap at eight hours, they found out it was damn
near perfectly intact. They kept him in bed for another day just to be sure,
but…"

Baxter stood up, and jaws dropped around the room.

"That's incredible." somebody muttered.

"It's goddamn alien space magic is what it is." Baseball grunted.

Reed nodded agreement, letting the interruption slide. "And for the time being
it looks like we're stuck relying on the Corti to make it for us. When our
scientists tried to figure out how it works in the lab, they say the samples
just dissolved into water and some weird organic molecules, like it's got a
self-destruct built in. But the results are plain--Corporal Baxter is fit and
well and back with his unit, under observation for long-term side effects but
otherwise unscathed after what _should_ have been the end of a promising
career as a US marine."

He turned off the screen. "So…what does this have to do with the six of you?"
he asked, rhetorically. "The short version is that with the physical demands
of the SOR program being so high-end, we want to use this stuff
therapeutically during the physical training. Slap-patches, joint
injections…You're all familiar with the theory behind muscle gains?"

There was general nodding. "Good. But to spell it out for the sake of clarity,
the very basic version is that the muscles and ligaments suffer minor damage,
and heal stronger than they were before."

"With this stuff," he continued "we think we can take that process to a new
level. Completely thrash the trainee during the day, then they heal perfectly
overnight thanks to a contact patch of Crue-D. Throw in some of the latest
developments in Sports Science and we think it's possible to produce operators
whose bodies exist on the absolute limit of what's humanly possible."

One of the others put his hand up. "Begging your pardon sir, but…You want _us_
to do that?"

"I'm putting it out there for you to think about. Like I said, the SOR is
still in its infancy. We've got all the necessary infrastructure in place, now
all that's needed are volunteers. Any such volunteers will be plucked from the
pararescue pipeline and put onto the SOR highway instead. This will closely
mirror--and often take place alongside--pararescue training, but will be even
more physically intense, and will then be followed by SOR-specific training
and possibly astronaut training as well. Any questions?"

Several hands went up. Reed acknowledged one of them with a point of his pen.

"Sir, what are the risks here?"

"We're assured that, when used correctly, Crue-D has no side effects. And to
head off the next question, the only incorrect use we know of was a couple of
cases where the original medicine--Cruezzir--entered the patient's gut biome,
where it was absorbed by intestinal bacteria which mutated and began to
produce a constant supply."

"What happens when _that_ happens?"

"According to the Corti, the subject undergoes rapid muscle growth, an
increase in bone density, and…basically reaches their maximum physical
potential without the need to exercise their way there, not to mention
becoming permanently able to heal from even quite serious injuries at a
remarkable rate. There's also some suggestion that they become biologically
immortal and may experience improved skill-learning and the tapping of latent
genetic potential that exists inside the human genome, such as the ability to
see some way into the infrared."

There was silence, then somebody else put their hand up. "Begging your pardon
sir, but why the hell aren't we going with _that_?"

"One, because Crue-D has been modified to preclude exactly that scenario
because it scares the bejesus out of the Corti. Two, because it seems to come
at a serious cost to the subject's mental health." Reed explained. "The two
known cases so far demonstrated reckless, self-destructive behaviour and
possible signs of a schizophrenic or Dissociative Identity disorder,
respectively."

"Besides that," he continued "We have no idea if that's just in the short-
term. The long-term effects of Crue-D applied topically in a targeted and safe
fashion, we are assured, are nil. _Nothing_ is known about the long-term
consequences of keeping the human body indefinitely soaked in the original
Cruezzir."

He cleared his throat. "The only remaining thing that _could_ be a risk factor
would be nutrition. You'll be packing on muscle and bone mass at such an
incredible rate that your diets will have to be strictly controlled down to
the last milligram and calorie. Every snack, every meal. You won't even be
able to grab a burger without planning and training ramp-down, and if done
incorrectly you might find yourself suffering from malnutrition. At the very
least it would be a wasted opportunity. At worst, well…"

This was met with thoughtful silence. Reed let them mull it over for a moment,
then spoke again.

"This is, obviously, an enormous decision. You would not be here if you were
so impulsive as to just take it on immediate notice, which is why we've
informed you today so you can have your weekends to consider it. This briefing
will continue on Monday at fourteen hundred hours. Dismissed."

"You're going for it, ain'tcha?"

Adam looked up. He'd been considering how to write back to Ava, tell her that
his training would go on for at least another two years beyond what they had
discussed, without breaching confidentiality or classification. He knew she'd
accept that he couldn't discuss such things with her, but she still deserved
an explanation, and he was carefully assembling that explanation in his head.

"This is what I got in for." he said, simply. "I knew there had to be aliens
involved _somewhere_, and…yeah."

Baseball sat down. "You did?"

"Dude, antimatter? Nobody on Earth's got that shit."

"We've got alien healy-juice though. They didn't tell me about _that_ shit
when I first heard about the SOR."

Adam nodded. "Yeah." he said. "That one's new on me, too."

"Man, I ain't sure about this Crue-D stuff." Baseball rubbed his chin
thoughtfully. "I knew too many guys got 'roided up in school…You sure you're
not rushing into this?"

"These ain't roids. This shit _heals_ you stronger, man!"

"Yeah, but…man, you trust _anything_ ET makes?"

Adam sighed. "I've been thinking about it for a long time, Base. The SOR's
going to be going up against the group that killed my mom and my friends.
That's _why_ I joined in the first place--'cause a group like that, needs
people fighting them, you know? I don't know if I trust ET, but I sure as hell
trust _us_, you know?"

"So you're going for it, then?"

"Yeah."

"…Okay. I'm with you, Hoss."

Adam paused: "Base, bro, you don't have to."

"Bullshit. We're a good team, you're the heavy lifting motherfucker, I'm the
brains of the outfit."

Adam laughed and gave him the finger.

Baseball laughed too, then reached out, flipped Adam's hand over, grabbed it
in a knuckle-creaking handshake and dragged him in for a solid masculine slam-
hug.

"Besides, we get to be fuckin' astronauts." he added. "You KNOW that's a
ticket to pussy."

Adam laughed again "Alright, you sentimental fuck. You're with me…I appreciate
it."

"You better."

_Hey Ava,_

_Baby, I'm sorry to do this to you, but there's a career opportunity come up
that's just perfect for me. It's everything I got into the military to
accomplish. I wish I could discuss it with you, but it's all confidential._

_The downside is that the training is two years longer than we'd planned for,
and it's going to be really hard to get the time to visit you during those two
years._

_I wish there was time for us to talk about it properly, but they want my
answer on whether or not I'm signing up for this thing on Monday, and there's
just not time for me to get back and with the emails only updating once a day,
by the time your reply gets to me, it'll be Monday anyway, so…_

_I'm sorry Ava. But this is too perfect to pass up._

_Write me back. I'll understand if you're mad._

_--Adam XXX_

**Date Point: 5y 4m 5d AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Jessica Olmstead_**

"Oh my God, Ava!"

Jessica had never been the kind of teacher who believe in keeping an emotional
distance from her students, and so when Ava shuffled into the classroom a
quarter hour early and looking totally ruined, she dropped everything and
dashed over to give the younger woman a hug. "What happened?"

Ava ran a shaking hand through unbrushed, unwashed hair and lost whatever grip
on her composure she'd had, burying herself in Jess' sweater and shaking
fiercely.

Jess just held her until finally Ava managed to pull herself together and
straighten up. "What happened?"

"I just…I checked my emails, and there's one from Adam, and…" Ava looked away
and made an angered expression at herself, fighting to stay in control. "He
changed the plan."

"Changed the…? I don't understand."

"I was _fine_ with him doing two years of pararescue training and some
deployments, and…I don't know! All that, we'd got it sorted out and I was fine
with it! But now he's talking about _four_ years of training and maybe not
being able to see each other _at all_ in those extra couple of years! And who
_knows_ how long after that!" Ava threw her hands up and engaged anger
circuits that Jess had never seen in her before.

"_Que se supone que haga? Él no me pregunto, el no me habla de ello …el hijo
de puta me acaba de enviar una CARTA DE MIERDA y espera que yo sea bien! Eso
**pendejo** desconsiderado!_ Eh?"

Jess sat on a desk. "I don't speak Spanish, Ava." she pointed out, gently.
"But watch your language, the kids'll be here soon."

Ava went still, then deflated and sat down, miserably. "He just…it's not just
_his_ life." she complained.

Jess gave her a moment to be silent. When Ava wiped her eyes and began to sort
herself out, she took the opportunity to be constructive. "What are you going
to do?" she asked.

Ava made a bitter little noise. "I should have learned this by now, shouldn't
I? Don't plan for anything, because tomorrow you might get nuked."

"So…?"

"So what I'm going to _do_ is…whatever seems like a good idea at the time."
Ava said.

"So what seems like a good idea right now?"

"Hah! Dumping his ass." but Ava was shaking her head to indicate that she had
nothing of the sort in mind. "But…whatever, so he's been an insensitive jerk
and made a huge decision without me. So what? At least he cares. He still
loves me, and I love him too, even if he's been a _huge_ jackass right now."

"So…?" Jessica repeated.

"So I guess what seems like a good idea is just…forgive him and try to be
happy." Ava shrugged. "Be happy _in the moment_, right? That's what our
Gaoians are so into. And I…I think I'd be unhappier without him."

She sighed, and stretched. "What do you think?"

Jess considered the question. "I guess my marriage broke up because we weren't
able to forgive when we hurt each other." she conceded in the end. "I don't
know, there's so many arguments either way, I guess you _do_ just have to go
with whatever seems like a good idea at the time."

"Like he did."

"Like he did." Jess agreed. "I think that's what love is, is understanding
when one of you comes first. Sometimes it's you, sometimes it's him."

She hesitated, then decided to put her money where her mouth was and say what
seemed like a good idea at the time. "And…Ava, he's a soldier now.
Soldiers…they don't always come back. I think you're going to need to get used
to trying to live as well as you can '_in the moment_' and not…and figure out
how you're going to get by without him, if that ever happens."

A banging in the hallways made them both look up--it was the clear sound of
the class starting to arrive. "If you want to borrow a hairbrush, there's one
in my office, on the desk." Jess offered.

Ava smiled. It wasn't a strong smile, but it was genuine. "Thanks, Jess. I
needed…thank you."

Jess gave her another hug. "I hope I helped."

Ava nodded, then slipped out the other door a few seconds before the class
started to enter, in usual boisterous mode.

Jess straightened and got herself back into teacher mode. The first, and
hopefully worst, of the day's crises was dealt with.

_Dear Mr. Ares,_

_As I said to you when Ava first arrived at our school, she has always struck
me as being much more intelligent than she believes herself to be. I am very
pleased to tell you that, over the last few months, she has vindicated my
belief in her and excelled at her studies. As you know, the free-form approach
to schooling that we use at this school does not allow me to break down her
performance by subject, but she has achieved outstanding performance in every
single module she has chosen to pursue._

_As the sole member of our senior group, with the next students not due to
enter that group for another three years, she does however pose a slight
administrative problem for the school, which I believe would be best resolved
by graduating her at the end of this coming summer term and then taking her on
over the coming school year as a teaching assistant. This will not only enable
her to continue to study ahead of her university plans, but will give her some
practical experience and income that will serve her in good stead._

_She has indicated to me that she wishes to attend the London School of
Economics to study for a career in photojournalism. Challenging though this
choice of career will doubtless be, I have complete confidence that she will
excel in it._

_Her combined overall grade for this semester is: A._

_Yours sincerely,_

_Dr. J. A. B. Olmstead_  
_Junior and Senior Groups Tutor, Folctha Comprehensive School._

"Wow…that's, uh, _easily_ the best report card I ever had."

Gabriel took off his reading glasses. "Yeah?"

Ava sighed. "Every other one I ever had always had the words '_could do
better_' in it." She said. "I guess they were right, huh?"

"I guess they were." Gabriel agreed, though he left out his opinion that if
her performance had previously been lackluster then that probably reflected
more on the education system than on Ava herself. "You gonna go for it?"

She hesitated. "Do you…think I should?"

"It sounds like an excellent opportunity." Gabriel told her. "Experience,
money and education all in one go? Chances like that don't come along too
often."

"True…"

Gabriel knew what the trepidation was about. "Why not discuss it with Doctor
Olmstead?" He suggested. "If you want plenty of time to get out there and
practice your photography, maybe she can help."

Ava nodded and pulled the camera out of her handbag. She was constantly
fiddling with it nowadays, usually with a frown. "I do need to practice more.
I keep looking at Sara's old pictures and seeing…you know, seeing new things
in them. Things she was doing that I didn't even know how to see before…"

She sighed. "She was…_really_ talented, Gabe. I want to try and do justice to
her, try and…bring back some of her spark, but I don't think I _can_."

"Even if you don't," Gabriel told her. "In trying, you'll find your own
talent. Don't think of it as bringing back her spark, but as…I dunno,
reincarnating it. Same spirit, but different, yeah?"

"Maybe…"

She put the camera away, then stood up and kissed him on the forehead. "I'd
better get home." she said.

"See you tomorrow?"

"Of course!"

**Date Point: 5y 5m 1w AV**  
**Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, USA, Earth**

**_Adam Ares_**

Indoc had taught Adam a trick. It had taught him how to notice that he was
exhausted and in pain, but to treat those facts as an abstract.

It was a useful trick. One that kept his feet kicking, hour upon hour upon
hour, in a pool of cold water, with his goggles flooded and his muscles
saturated with lactic acid. The mind went to a quiet place without thought,
where the absence of any stimulation but the physical exertion didn't matter,
and where the exertion itself was not the immediate, intimate issue it might
once have been, but was instead…academic. It wasn't even tedious--his ego was
so shut down as to not care that he'd received no real intellectual
stimulation for _hours_.

There was just the task: Keep kicking.

In that mode, he might have gone on until his body finally gave out. And that,
he suspected on those rare occasions where he was permitted to be lucid, was
the point.

Besides, pool days were comparatively gentle, compared to the weight sessions.
Those were the days when the Crue-D came out in force, when muscles sprained
and ligaments tore and were forced to mend almost on the spot. You worked
until you broke, and were then fixed. And then, while you healed, you trained
something else.

If he hadn't learned how to _notice_ his pain without _experiencing_ it, he
couldn't have borne it.

There was just the task: Keep lifting.

Keep kicking.

Keep _improving_.

He wasn't even waiting. He was just _doing_, until the whistle blow summoned
him out of his trance and allowed him to _stop doing_ again. Allowed him, once
he was out of the pool, to become Adam again and realise just how trashed and
tired he really was.

Adam, who was packing on muscle at an incredible rate. He'd known that he
would, of course. The SOR briefing had been clear on that. But it was still
jarring sometimes to look at himself and recall that just two years ago he'd
been a skinny teenager who didn't even fill out the small shirts in the store,
whereas he now wore Extra-large sized shirts like a second skin.

"Line up!"

He met Baseball's eye as they lined up alongside the pararescue candidates.
They stood out, now, clearly on a different career path. The PJs were strong
as hell, but Adam and Baseball were both much, much bigger. Their ability to
wriggle into tight places had been sacrificed to prioritize the raw power they
needed to remain mobile and active under crushingly heavy loads.

Being lined up after an exercise was nothing new--it had hitherto been the
prelude to another task. This time was different. This time the MTLs lined up
in front of them, at attention, and Master Sergeant Allen--the team leader--
stepped forward, studying them carefully.

Devastated as they were by what must have been a truly epic session in the
pool, every one of the airmen held at attention perfectly. Finally, he nodded.

"Airmen." he said. "You have now completed the Indoctrination section of your
Pararescue training. You have done something that is literally better than a
one in a million event--precious few men have ever accomplished this task.
You're not Pararescuemen yet, but as of today, you've proven that you are all
worthy to follow in the green Footsteps of the giants of your chosen unit. You
have cleared the first and most difficult hurdle on the road to your maroon
beret, and it has been our honor and privilege as your Military Training
Leaders to witness this feat."

He saluted, as did all the other MTLs. The exhausted airmen returned a
precision salute with equal snappy enthusiasm. "Congratulations."

The salute was held for a moment, then relaxed, and the MTLs softened with it,
advancing forward to exchange handshakes, hugs and smiles with men they'd been
yelling at only minutes before.

Adam was running on fumes, but he joined in gladly. He'd known he could do it.

Finally, the congratulations died down. Master Sergeant Allen finally called
an end to it. "Alright, get back to your dorms and get some sleep." he
ordered. "And sleep in. Tomorrow is a Liberty day. Get checked out, get
laundry done. Don't you worry about your gear just this once, we'll take care
of it. You've earned it."

He paused, then smiled. "But don't get stupid." he added. "training resumes
the next day."

**Date Point: 5y 9m 3w AV**  
**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Gabriel Ares_**

"Ah. I thought so."

Gabriel looked up from toying with his glass of water. The waiters of
Folctha's first restaurant--and what a restaurant it was!--had been discreetly
keeping him supplied with water for a few minutes now. Ava had spent her first
paycheck arranging for him and '_someone else_' to be among the place's first
diners.

He had to admit, he was intrigued. He hadn't been on a date in years, and
never on a _blind_ date. Though, like the woman who had just said '_I thought
so_', he'd had a sneaking suspicion he knew who it would be.

"Wow!" he commented. He'd been right, but he barely recognised her.

Jess Olmstead giggled. "That's a good start!"

Gabriel stood and pulled back a seat for her. "Heartfelt." he promised, as she
settled into it, carefully dropping her handbag beneath her. Whenever he'd
interacted with Jess before she'd been in teacher mode, favouring a black
cardigan and a red scarf with a long skirt. Comfortable, sensible and plain.

For tonight, she'd worn something substantially sleeker in dark blue, with a
neckline that pulled at the eyes, punctuated by an attention-grabbing, slim
little minimalist necklace and a smile that said '_go ahead and look_'. Her
hair was out of its usual loose ponytail and swept into something just a
little bit more elaborate. Gabe had enough experience with women to know just
how much time and agonising would have gone into crafting such an apparently
effortless appearance, and knew enough about perfume to scent that she was
wearing an expensive one.

Good signs, especially considering that she claimed to have suspected who her
date was.

"Ava's got to be so proud of herself right now, playing matchmaker." he noted,
sitting down again.

"Well, I had my suspicions." Jess confessed. "There aren't many other people
she _could_ have set me up on a date with."

"Likewise."

"And yet, here we are."

"Here we are." Gabe agreed, mirroring her smile and pleased that he'd put
similar effort into his own appearance, between getting the fit of his suit
adjusted and treating himself to a wet shave. He'd even subtly dipped into
Adam's left-behind stash of "manscaping" products, which had been a strange
experience for him, being of a generation of men that didn't traditionally
wear cosmetics of any kind. Ava had reassured him that the result was dashing
and sophisticated, especially when coupled with his cane.

The maitre'd spun by with the wine list and a recommendation, which they
agreed to with nods and murmurs.

"She was pretty thrilled with your recommendation." He revealed. "So was I. I
think it's exactly what she needs."

"I hope so." Jessica poured herself a small glass of water from the
complimentary jug between them. "She's…an amazing person, really. Her and your
son both."

"Don't I know it." Gabriel agreed. "I don't think I'd be coping so well if I
wasn't so proud of them both."

"Yes, I heard Adam was an '_honor graduate_'?"

"I barely recognised him!" Gabriel said. "He walked differently, he looked
around differently, he was so much more…_focused_." He sighed. "I guess the
military suits him. On the one hand I'm pleased, but on the other…you know,
he's signing up for a very dangerous life. After everything that's happened…"

Jess leaned forward, unconsciously echoing his sigh. "Heaven help us if we
ever get used to the idea of our kids doing dangerous work." she commented,
and nodded along when he nodded.

"_Si._ He's his own man, and Ava's her own woman. I just wish I knew how to
make their lives…happier."

Jess smiled. "Start by making your own life happier." she suggested.

"Well, that's why I came down here." Gabriel said.

Jess smiled and sipped her water. "I'm glad to hear it."

"You think it's that simple?" Gabriel asked. "That I'll help them by helping
myself?"

"I do." Jess nodded. "And they'll help you by helping themselves. It's plain
how much the three of you love one another."

The wine arrived along with a couple of slim menus, which distracted them both
for a few minutes as they mulled over their options and ordered.

"Like you said." Gabe continued once their orders were placed. "They're
amazing people. With everything that's happened they've only grown tougher and
more mature."

"What about you?" Jess asked him.

Gabe just shrugged a little. "A little weaker in some ways, a little stronger
in others." he suggested. "I'm ready to date again, for instance. That's a big
step forward for me."

"You still held a bit of a candle for your ex? I know it took me ages to get
over my divorce… "

"…No, I don't think that's it." Gabe mulled it over. "I think I was
more…bruised and weary, if that makes sense?"

"I understand." Jess nodded, fiddling with the stem of her glass and listening
to him with her chin on her hand.

"What about you, does your ex-husband know you're living on an alien world
nowadays?"

Jess giggled. "My ex-_wife_ and I haven't spoken in years." she said. "I have
no idea what she's doing with her life, and I haven't let her know what I'm
doing with mine."

Gabriel cleared his throat. "Sorry."

"Don't be." She reassured him. "I only mention it when it's relevant, and it's
only relevant with people who… ."

"Who…?"

She just winked at him. Her nose wrinkled a little when she did so, and
Gabriel practically fell in love on the spot.

He raised his glass. "To a good first date." he proposed.

She raised her eyebrows, picking up the wine glass but not yet meeting his
toast. "_First_ date?"

"_First_ date." he repeated, projecting as much confidence as he could muster.

She smiled, causing her nose to wrinkle again, and her glass rang against his.

"Is it the quality of the wine, do you think, or how much of it we had?"

Gabriel laughed. "A little bit of column A and a little bit of column B." he
suggested. Neither of them were _drunk_ as such, but they both definitely had
a happy buzz on, warming and rounding off the night as he walked her home with
an arm around her waist. She seemed very happy to be going at his slow,
limping pace.

"I think you're right…aww, we're at my house already?"

Gabriel studied it. Jess lived in the same kind of tiny chalet as had been
given to Adam and Ava, like most of the colonists. He knew that Sir Jeremy was
still handling the minutiae of bringing in contractors to establish more
permanent and comfortable housing, but that project had only just begun.

"That's one of the perks of being colonial security chief." he said. "My
apartment's even bigger than the one I had back in San Diego."

"Oh really?"

"Yep. Want to see?"

Jess laughed. "Oh, Gabe." she chided. "I think we'd at least better have a
couple more dates before you show me how big your…" she paused, cheekily.
"…_apartment_ is."

"Whenever you want, wherever you want." he replied.

"Tuesday, same place and time?" she suggested.

"Absolutely." he agreed.

"Good, because I really enjoyed myself tonight."

He turned towards her, still with his arm on her waist. "You wanna round it
off with a goodnight kiss?"

She did so. It was a _good_ one too, several seconds of gentle, smiling lip
contact with a hand on his cheek that promised better things to come,
underlined by a second, shorter one just after they separated.

They didn't say anything else. She just trailed her hand in his as she let
herself into her chalet, letting go only in time to blow him a kiss and close
the door.

Gabriel Ares walked home with the largest smile on his face that he'd worn in
years.

**Date Point: 5y 11m 1w AV**  
**Folctha colony, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Gabriel Ares_**

Rather than hobbling through the living room and opening the door, Gabriel was
in the habit of shouting "Come on in, Ava!" when the doorbell rang.

She was the only one who used it--literally everyone else in the colony
knocked. It was becoming one of those Cimbrean quirks, the sign of a local,
insofar as anybody COULD be local in a town so young.

Ava let herself in and gave him a daughterly kiss on the cheek. Gabriel knew
better than to comment that she looked a mess--her eyes were dark and pinkish,
and she obviously hadn't brushed her hair. "Cup of coffee?" He asked.

She nodded and slumped down at the table. "That." she said. "Would be
amazing."

"You okay?"

"Ah, I stayed up all night doing my part of the end-of-semester marking so I
wouldn't have it to do while Adam's around."

"He's not due back until tomorrow." Gabriel pointed out. His kitchen faucet
had a mode to deliver boiling water, and he used it to fill the cafetier with
his favoured blend of Galapagos coffee--a rare treat. Sure, Ava adulterated
hers with so much cream and sugar that it was barely recognisable, and a bit
of a waste, but he figured it must still be better behind all that than just
the instant stuff.

"Yeah, but…it's his birthday, so I can't sleep." Ava gave him a little smile
that said she knew just how nonsensical that was.

"You're that nervous at seeing him again?" Gabriel asked, leaning against the
counter while the coffee brewed.

"For, like…a whole bunch of reasons." Ava agreed.

"Eh, don't worry so much." Gabriel told her fondly. "if you two manage to
break the bed or something, I'll fix it."

"_Da-ad!_"

Gabriel raised an eyebrow. Her exclamation had been so guilelessly _teenage_
that it was like a note of pure honesty in the room--there couldn't have been
a conscious decision to call him that involved. "Dad, huh?" he asked, softly.

She'd gone beet red, but she stood up and hugged him. "I'm sorry, I--"

"Hey." he stroked her hair down, as much to get it out of his face as to
reassure her. "You're a daughter to me as well, you know? I couldn't have
asked for better."

Ava took the compliment well, sitting down again and tidying herself up a
little with a smile as Gabriel depressed the plunger on his cafetier and
served.

"I um…" she began. "I guess now that that's out there, I should…there's
something I want you to know."

"You sure?" Gabriel asked, catching her nervousness.

Ava swallowed and nodded. "I guess if I've learned anything these last couple
of years, it's to never leave things un-said." she shrugged.

A news reel of different emotions rapid-fired across Gabriel's face, but he
sat down and said nothing, letting Ava take her time.

"I miss my parents." she said, finally. "It's…so nice to have a parent again,
I love you. You took me in, you've been everything I needed but…"

"I understand." Gabriel said softly. "There's no substitute for the original.
Hell, I miss _my_ folks."

"No, that's not it…" Ava sighed, then wiped her eyes. "I feel really guilty
whenever I think this, but I kind of feel like…like you've been a _better_
father to me. You're _here_, you've always been here for Adam, and you've been
here for me too. I hate to say it, but my parents' idea of being good parents
was just to, to buy me stuff. They gave me whatever I asked for but they
didn't really…I don't know…"

"They gave you what you asked for, which maybe wasn't what you needed?"
Gabriel finished.

"…Papa would never have joked about fixing the bed." Ava said. "And…Mom would
have told me off for not brushing my hair, but you asked if I was feeling
okay. Stuff like that, that you do for me and for Adam. You treat us like a,
like you're our _friend_ as well as our dad. I miss them, but…they treated me
more like a doll or a…a pet or a trophy sometimes."

Gabriel handed her a clean tissue, which she made grateful use of. "You don't
need to feel guilty of that, you know." he said.

"I know that up _here_." Ava tapped her scalp, then bunched a fist between her
breasts and knocked on her sternum. "but…"

Gabe scooted round the table and hugged her. "It means a lot." he promised. "I
try but…it's good to know you think I'm doing a good job."

She smiled. "I'm glad I got that out there."

Gabe laughed a little. "Go home and sleep." he suggested. "You're going to
need it, but you're welcome to come round, join Jess and me for dinner this
evening."

"I'd like that_._" she told him, and stood up.

"Go. Sleep. _Nos vemos_."

"_Hasta luego, papa._"

**Date Point: 5y 11m 1w AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

The passenger jump array had been expanded again during the year of Adam's
absence, but they'd kept the glass wall, allowing friends and family to
witness the arrivals and departures.

There were a lot of them these days. Byron Group employees headed home for
Christmas, travellers from Earth visiting Cimbrean for the same…

And Adam's face on a nearly unrecognisable body.

Ava's jaw threatened to drop. Adam had warned her, as best he could, about
what to expect from the fitness regime he'd been on, but she hadn't been
prepared for _this_.

Sure, he'd been fit before leaving and at the end of Basic. Buff, even. But
the Adam who caught her gaze and smiled that same winning, puppyish smile at
her was getting to the point where the word "buff" was no longer quite
adequate. He was…

He was…

He was fucking _HOT_.

A year of living alone had inevitably resulted in fantasizing and…well, in
entertaining herself as best she could, and Ava had assembled a sizable folder
on her tablet full of big strong guys. While knowing that he was going to come
back big and strong had almost certainly played a role in shaping her tastes
that way, Adam would _not_ have looked out of place in that folder.

She made a mental note to add some pictures of him to it.

His muscles were as firm and dense as teak when they hugged, and he made her
feel featherlight when he picked her up and spun her around, beaming.

"_GOD_ I missed you."

She sighed happily and kissed him. "Your letters just…wow, they didn't do
justice. Look at you!"

He looked down and spread his arms. "You like?"

He turned around, and Ava had to _fight_ to stop herself from automatically
biting her lower lip. "_Yeah_…" she squeaked. "I mean, you were pretty before,
but…"

They became aware that several bystanders were able to overhear them, to judge
by the amused glances they were attracting, and shared a bit of a blush. Adam
shouldered his bag with a weighty thump. "Am I…staying with you?"

"Why wouldn't you be?"

"I've learned not to make assumptions." he replied, clearly pleased by the
response, then looked around. "Hey, where's Dad?"

"He's cooking Thanksgiving dinner. We're going round there in a couple hours."

"But Thanksgiving was last month." Adam pointed out.

"Yeah, but you missed it." she retorted. "And it was your birthday yesterday,
so…"

"Does it work that way?"

"It does now."

He laughed. "That works."

**_Adam Ares_**

"Wow. Okay. Guess you're opening the jars tonight, _Amigo_."

Adam laughed, and hugged his dad, gently. "Easy." he said, then smiled at
Jessica, who was hovering in the background with a slightly stunned
expression. "Hey Jess."

"'_Hey_' yourself!" she replied. "Good _God_ you've changed since I last saw
you."

They hugged.

"Wasn't easy." he told her. "Gotta tell ya, hearing you and Dad were dating
really picked me up when I was having a rough time with the EMT training."

"You were struggling with that?" Ava asked, hanging up her jacket and sitting
down at Gabriel's dinner table, while Gabriel returned to the kitchen. The
whole apartment smelled of turkey and potatoes.

"Yeah. Think I've learned just enough about medicine now to know that I know
basically _nothing_ about medicine. It's…crazy." he sighed. "And for a while
there I just wasn't getting it, you know? My buddy Baseball--you remember
Baseball?"

Ava giggled. "Hard to forget."

He laughed. "Right. Well, he was kicking my ass. He's a total natural. Me…I
mean, I'm starting to get it now, but for a long while there, getting all that
knowledge to stay in my head was damn near impossible. You've got to learn a
lot of the academic stuff before you can start working on the practical, you
know?"

"You always were more of a hands-on kinda guy." Gabriel noted, from the
kitchen. Jess nodded, smiling and looking up at the ceiling with an '_oh
yeah_' expression.

"You were okay though?" she asked.

"Ah, y'know. I was just…frustrated." Adam's chair creaked as he sat down next
to Ava. "Like, I'd gone through all the pain of Indoc and all that PT and
everything, and here I was struggling with what I'd thought was gonna be the
easy bit. So yeah, the good news from home helped there. Made me feel positive
again, and that helped me get past the block. Can't say I'm ever going to be a
_great_ medic, but I'm not gonna be a _bad_ medic, either."

"So you approve?" Gabe asked, appearing with the plates.

"Oh come _on_, Dad! I mean, of course I do, but you don't _need_ my approval."

Jess and Gabe exchanged a happy glance, and both headed into the kitchen.

"Guess this is a family Thanksgiving then." Ava commented, snuggling up next
to Adam.

"Late though it is." Gabe agreed, reappearing with the roast potatoes. "Adam,
put those muscles to use _Amigo_, bring the turkey through?"

Adam laughed and did so, retrieving a bird the size of a dog from the oven
which he hefted easily on one oven-gloved hand. "Where did you get this?"

"Cimbrean wild turkey." Jess revealed. "They're part of the ecosystem
reconstruction."

"No shit? What else is out there?"

"Bobcats, bats, mice, eels, eagles…" Ava smiled. "From what Hayley Tisdale was
telling me, they're throwing a whole bunch of different species into the mix
and letting natural selection do the rest."

"They're talking about deer and wolves, too." Jess added. "It's not all going
perfectly right--I heard the eagles especially are struggling. Apparently the
low gravity throws off their instincts when they're swooping in on top of
something, and they struggle to hunt at first."

"How is Hayley?" Adam asked.

"She's…She and Marc, they're both okay. Did I tell you they had a little
girl?"

"…Yeah, you did. Hope?"

"Hope. That's right." Ava nodded. "She _was_ gonna come back to Folctha after
the birth but the medical advice was it's probably not good for a kid to live
in low gravity until at least their second growth spurt which is, what? Ten or
eleven years? And even then… "

"Right." Adam nodded.

"So, they're living in London nowadays, working for the Reclamation Project.
Something about…GMO plants that are better suited to Cimbrean's soil, gravity
and sunlight."

Gabe set down the last of the gravy, vegetables and sauces, and glanced around
the table, looking happier and less stressed than Adam could remember seeing
him in a long time. "So…Thanksgiving. It's been a rough and crazy few years,
and…you know, I can't remember the last time we actually did this. I just
wanted you to know how thankful I am to have the three of you in my life."

Jess smiled, and murmured a "Hear, hear."

Gabe and Ava exchanged glances, and bowed their heads in prayer. Jess just put
her elbow on the table and her chin in her hand, watching them with a faint
smile.

Adam…thought.

It was a skill he hadn't been given much opportunity to practice. Constant PT,
constant education, interspersed only with meals, sleep and only a little
leisure time (most of which had been taken up by letters and Madden) hadn't
made for a contemplative year. He'd learned to enjoy moments, though, and this
moment was…

Warm. Comfortable. He shut his eyes and let it wash over him--the gentle
breathing, the wall clock marking away the seconds, the buzz of the kitchen
light and hum of the oven fan, the warmth of Ava sitting next to him, the soft
sound of his Dad praying under his breath…

He opened his eyes when Gabriel murmured an "_Amen_", and looked up.

"So…" he asked. "What are the rest of you having?"

**Date Point: Boxing Day, 5y 11m 2w AV**

Adam wasn't yet asleep, but it still took him a couple of seconds to register
the knock on his door.

He sat up a bit "Ava?"

She called through the door. "Can I come in?"

"Sure!"

She'd left the hall light on and leaned against the door frame, backlit by it,
and Adam just had to stare. She was wearing one of his t-shirts, a thin white
one. The shirt itself wasn't blocking any of the light from behind her, and
the varying depth of shadow her body made under it was…

Amazing. Sexy. Gorgeous. He could just about make out her nipples by the
shadows they cast across the fabric, and the shirt was _just_ short enough to
create a fascinating dark triangle with her thighs. When he looked up at her
face, she was breathing heavily through slightly parted lips.

"Past midnight?" he asked.

She laughed, nervously. "Happy birthday to me."

"_Deja vu_." he observed. She laughed a little again, and took a pace forward,
loitering at the end of the bed.

"I've been…kind of regretting that, I, uh…I chickened out last time." she
confessed.

"Ch-uh, chickened out?"

She knelt on the edge of his bed and _crawled_ up it like a predatory cat to
kiss him.

It was a different kiss to any they'd shared before--a fiercer, more _adult_
one. He was still mind-blanked by it when she grabbed his wrist and guided his
hand firmly onto flesh that was so warm it almost felt like she'd burn the
skin off his palm.

He took the hint and put his free hand on the back of her head, pulling her
into the kiss. By the time it came to a natural conclusion she was pressed
right up against him, every warm inch of her, and his roaming hands had
discovered that she wasn't wearing so much as a stray thread under that shirt.

All of that notwithstanding, though, she was trembling.

"You sure you're ready?" he asked.

"I am." she promised, and straddled his lap, grinding against him and making
him acutely aware of just how little and thin the blanket was, knowing how
close which bits of _him_ were to which bits of _her_. There was a scent in
the room he'd never smelled before, and it was having an urgent effect on some
very ancient parts of his brain.

He could feel every inch of his body pulsing, shaken by a heart that was
suddenly hammering away as hard as if he was back in Indoc. Was feeling sick
and shaky the right response here? It was all his body seemed to know how to
do. For all he wanted to be suave and confident and passionate with her, deep
inside he was a knot of anxiety and trepidation. So was she, judging by the
way she froze when her hand paused in trailing down his body, _just_ short if
its destination.

"You're scared." he observed. She just smiled weakly and nodded. "We don't
have to if you don't--" he began.

"I want to." she interrupted him.

"But…you're scared."

"So are you."

He couldn't deny it.

"Do _you_ want to?" she asked.

The honest answer was that every nerve in his body did, bits of him _hurt_
with wanting to, but he was becoming too paralysed by the shakes to do more
than nod.

It seemed to be enough for Ava's purposes. She scooted down his legs, taking
the blanket away, and conjured a little square foil pack that she must have
smuggled in with her, somehow. "Lie back." she whispered.

Adam could no more have disobeyed her than he could have willed himself to
teleport to Mars. He lay back and shut his eyes, almost hyperventilating as
she pulled his pajamas off him.

She made a noise, something between a frightened whimper and a "wow", and
there was a little crinkly noise as she tore open the wrapper of the thing
she'd brought with her.

"I don't know how to put one of those on…" he objected.

"It's okay." she promised, and touched him where the contact went through him
like an electric shock. "I do."

After that, while they made plenty of other noises, the only talking they did
was in the form of whispered instructions and little two-word prayers.

When he woke in the morning, she was still there. It hadn't been a dream.

Most of the morning was spent fielding birthday well-wishes for Ava. Her
presents were both more numerous and more impressive than Adam's, but he
didn't mind--she could take them with her, after all.

It was only after the last of their visitors had gone that either of them were
able to discuss what had happened the night before, as they were finishing the
washing up.

"Did you…" she cleared her throat. "…Was it…okay?"

He took her hand. "It was…kind of awkward." he confessed.

"Yeah…" she nodded agreement. "I'm sorry…"

"No, no…it was great! Uh…maybe we, uh, just need to practice."

She thought about that, put her head on one side, put the last fork on the
drying rack and vanished into the bedroom.

"Uh, Ava…?"

Her shirt flew out of the door. "So let's practice!" she called.

"Oh! Right!" He tripped over his own socks in his rush to pull them off and
join her.

They practiced.

((Don't move on to chapter 23 yet! This has been just the first part of
Chapter 22: you can find the link to the rest of this chapter below))

