# Chapter 27: "Playing with Fire." | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Technical Sergeant Martina Kovač_**

The mad thought that was first and foremost in Martina's mind was that
_Caledonia_'s general alarm should have sounded more… serious. She was on a
_starship_ for crying out loud, and the fact that said starship was on fire in
a major way really warranted more than an almost-quiet 'da_da_da_da_da_da_'
warble.

This was not a situation for a cartoon cop-car noise. There were gouts of
flame shooting out of the air vents, powered systems shutting off all around
as their surge protectors cut in, and the hull was singing as the heat
stretched and expanded it. _Caledonia_ was groaning like a wounded whale. This
was a situation demanding loud, harsh tones with a deep backbone, something
that really advertised the importance of prompt action.

The reason this particular unreasonable train of thought was occupying her
attention was that it was helping her cope with the fact that she was stuck in
a pressurized tube of air thousands of lightyears from home which was
_currently on fire_.

She really, _really_ did not want to burn to death out here. Suffocating on
smoke, depressurization and electrocution were all options as well, and this
was not a fact calculated to help her stay calm. Focusing on the stupid little
thing that the alarm was _completely wrong_ helped her ignore the bigger
problems.

Maybe that was the point.

Everybody on board was a firefighter. Nobody was allowed to serve in any
capacity on _Caledonia_ without that training. Martina was armed with a pair
of "fireball" extinguishers, red balls that were to be thrown into the heart
of any nearby flames, which would burn through their casing and allow the
pressurized mix of inert gas and flame-retardant foam within to burst,
smothering the flame instantly. They worked well, and between her and the
teams with a hose and some more conventional extinguishers, they were battling
the flames back out of their station.

She tried very hard indeed not to think too hard about the fact that the
ventilation duct in the ceiling was glowing like barbecue coals. It was part
of a long list of things she was not thinking about, including the fact that
_Caledonia_'s capacitors contained enough stored energy that if they
discharged uncontrollably then everybody on board would be dead in an instant.
Whether they died from gigavolts of energy arcing uncontrollably between the
bulkheads like the ultimate bug-zapper, or from the whole cap array detonating
with all the violence of a nuke… well, that would be academic.

Not thinking about _that_ one was made very difficult every time the lights
flickered. So instead she focused on the little things, like doing her job, or
that _fucking_ alarm.

There was a cry of "Left side!" From Petty officer Taylor. Why was immediately
obvious - sparking electrical apparatus, one of the power lockers feeding into
the hangar's huge forcefield arrays. As a team they made it safe, shutting off
the power to that locker, making sure it wasn't burning, ensuring the pressure
doors were all sealed and that their section was completely free of flames.

The last of the fire was contained by closing the life support vent. The air
inside would still be superheated, and the air in starboard bay was going to
be stale, smoky and hot for a long time

They were in the middle of tentatively relaxing when there was what distinctly
sounded like an explosion somewhere else on board the ship and the lights
flickered again.

"Still here…" Somebody muttered, then flinched as the brace alarm sounded.
_That_ one was everything the fire alarm was not - urgent, loud and
intimidating.

"They're dumping the cap!" Somebody else yelled. As one they sprang for the
wall. There were rails at waist and ankle height - one for holding, one for
hooking their toes under. Most of them made it.

Martina didn't.

The lights dropped out, and gravity went with it. Martina wasn't secured yet -
her last footstep towards the wall carried her forwards, but it also launched
her. Off-balance and disoriented in the brief dark, she bounced painfully off
the wall. Worse, her trajectory on the rebound was carrying her right towards
that same glowing duct the flames had been belching from just seconds before.

The emergency lights came up; she twisted to try and grab the bar; Her
fingertips missed by a millimeter.

"Nononono no…!"

She didn't mean to scream - there was just no way not to. She heard and felt
herself _sizzle_ before she bounced off the superheated conduit and floated
back across the deck, flailing madly at the horrible pain right down her back.

"Shit!"

"Help her for fuck's sake!"

"I've got you!"

A strong hand caught her wrist and pulled to safety. She was in so much
blinding pain that her rescuer needed to guide her hands to the hold bar and
help her tuck her feet under the rail, but she was able to hold on.

The gravity came back on at a fraction of its former strength, and Martina
sank to the deck, shaking.

People were all around her in a heartbeat.

"Medical team to starboard flight deck!"

"Get some water on her!"

A shockingly cold load of water was dumped down her back, soaking into her
clothing immediately. It helped, a little.

"Kovač! Kovač! Come on, you okay?"

She was able to open her eyes at least, and make eye contact. One of Rebar's
suit techs, Miller, was crouched next to her. Behind his breathing gear, she
could see that he was wide-eyed with concern.

How did words go again? She tried to say anything, but what came out was a
kind of childish cry instead as her clothing weighed agonisingly against the
burn.

"Okay. It's okay. If it hurts that means it's only partial." Miller reassured
her.

Martina shut her eyes again and took a few deep breaths, as much as her fire
mask would let her. "God _dammit_ that doesn't help…" she managed.

"Hey, that's good too! Talking is good." Miller sounded thoroughly relieved.

"Gotta get the burnt clothes off, Kovač." Somebody else said.

Martina put her head down and nodded by way of assent. Removing burnt clothing
was part of their burn treatment training. She'd never foreseen being on the
receiving end, but…

She felt the safety blade rip downwards from her collar, opening the back of
her clothing from neck to knee. The tug of the wet cloth and her wound's
exposure to the hot, dry air of the ship combined so that the pain came right
back, just as intense as before. All she could do was kneel there, gripping
the bar so tight she'd swear it was creaking, and cry.

"Shh, it's okay, it's okay, let's get some more water on this…"

More blessedly cold water was poured down her back, and somebody put a foil
blanket round her. The frigid liquid damped the pain, but now she was
shivering and cold into the bargain.

"How… how bad is it?" She asked, once she felt able.

"You've got a small full-thickness patch, but it's mostly just blisters."
Miller assessed. "You okay?"

"This really, really, _really_ fucking hurts…" Martina didn't like how the
last word came out as a sob. She wasn't a little girl fuckdammit, she was one
of the SOR's senior non-commissioned officers. Crying over pain was beneath
her.

If only the rest of her would listen to that thought.

"You're holding together great." Miller told her, reading her mind and gently
prying her hand off the bar so he could hold it. Even through their thick
firefighting gloves, the reassuring squeeze helped.

There was a bustling noise from nearby - medics and a litter. "Okay. Burn.
Mechanism?"

"Contact with hot metal. She fell into it when the gravity went." Miller
reported.

"Sergeant, are you okay?"

Martina knew that he'd want to hear her voice so he could assess her for a
burn on her vocal cords, so she made an effort to speak rather than just shake
her head. "I'll be honest." She managed. "I'm not great."

"Okay, let's get you moved… Here we go…"

Gently hands helped her onto the litter. Somehow she managed to avoid
vocalizing more than a kind of shocked inhalation when another flare of agony
rippled down her back.

"Okay, okay… You're doing great."

Martina found something about that assertion funny. Maybe it was the
adrenaline, maybe it was that or keep crying like a little girl. "Yaaay…
aargh."

She wound up in the recovery position on the litter, draped under the blanket.
One of the medics shone a light in her face quickly, and apparently found
nothing alarming. There was a hoist, and she was up and being carried.

"Attagirl. Let's get you to the doctor."

"Has the ship stopped being on fire yet?" Martina asked "That seems kinda
important."

"Yeah, it's out." Somebody replied.

"Cool… Great."

The trip to the hospital was just across the beam of the ship - not far at
all. She wasn't alone, though most of the wounded coming in were walking, or
at least leaning on their buddies.

"Triage!"

"What've we got?"

"Contact burn. Partial thickness with blistering about nine percent TBSA, and
a coin-sized patch of full-thickness. No inhalation."

"Put her over there. Sergeant?"

Martina looked up as best she could as one of the doctors knelt by her. "It'll
be a few minutes before we can take a proper look at you." He said, pulling a
white stick out of its sterile packaging. "Until then, this is pain relief.
Open wide."

Martina nodded and complied, and the doctor inserted it under her tongue.

"There we go. Are you comfortable?"

"Aw goow aw am gowwa ber." Martina replied, as best she could with a stick
under her tongue. Maybe it was the adrenaline, but the sound of her own voice
made her giggle. "Whank'ur."

The doctor gave her a nod and stood up, leaving her to wait.

Really, all they needed to do was give her the pain relief. There were some
doses of Crue-D left over in their locker in the starboard hangar, all dosed
for mild workout and exhaustion among the Operators - adjusting for her own
much lesser weight, each one was a more than adequate dose to fix her burns.

She was just reflecting on her good fortune in having access to that stuff
when there was shouting from the doorway and a new litter arrived. This one
had a man on it, supine, intubated and groaning like a zombie. His face was-

Martina shut her eyes. The poor bastard deserved not to be stared at, though
what she'd seen suggested that was exactly what he was in for, for the rest of
his life.

Maybe it was the stick in her mouth, maybe it was the sudden dose of
perspective… but all of a sudden her own pain seemed very small and far away.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Chief Michael Andow_**

The air _probably_ tasted of smoke, ozone and burnt material, some proportion
of which was almost certainly human flesh. Chief Andow wouldn't know - he was
on bottled oxygen, as were the rest of his team. That air was mostly argon and
carbon monoxide anyway: Trying to breath it would have killed them, and hurt
the whole time they were dying.

Still. They were alive.

Reactor section chiefs on a military starship were an exclusive breed: there
were only a total of eight, and all of them had the kind of academic education
previously found only in scientific agencies like NASA and CERN. Andow and his
counterpart on HMS _Myrmidon_ in particular had to occupy the very top of that
select group because _their_ charges, unlike the six V-Class destroyers, were
hybrids: advanced alien ships that had been gutted and extensively refitted
with human equipment. Very little remained of the original systems and what
few there were had to interface with human hardware that used none of the same
standards and protocols.

Their lives were dominated by laws and equations, the most important of which
was ancient: Newton's second law of motion, Force is equal to Mass times
Acceleration.

HMS _Caledonia_ had a mass of approximately nine million kilograms. She was
equipped with hyper-efficient, alien-made "kinetic" thrusters, that could
translate electrical energy almost directly into kinetic energy via quantum-
mechanical processes so arcane and so completely unintuitive to human
sensibilities that all of the Jet Propulsion Lab's devoted efforts had made
little headway on understanding exactly how they worked.

But, ultra-advanced, impenetrable almost-magic engines still had to deal with
realities like F=MA, and to get any kind of a respectable A out of an M that
large, required an enormous F. _Cally_, between the Atlassian strength of her
spinal, structural "keel" and a reinforcing series of internal forcefields,
was well-equipped to handle that force… which just left the question of
energy.

Thermodynamics dictated that increasing the kinetic energy of an object by any
amount required, at a minimum, the insertion of a slightly larger amount of
energy. This was governed by another classic Newtonian equation: Kinetic
Energy is equal to half the mass of the object times the square of its
velocity. Given a mass of nine million kilograms, adding a stately ten meters
per second to the ship every second demanded roughly four hundred and fifty
megawatts.

Accounting for inefficiency, loss and power to necessary systems such as, say,
life support, _Cally_'s three reactors - bleeding-edge fusion things that had
been purely speculative in the pre-Contact world - between them produced just
about enough to let her pull three Gs if power was diverted from non-essential
systems.

Allied strategic intelligence had surmised from what they could glean of
Dominion, Alliance and Hunter vessels that this was perfectly adequate for a
competitive warship, but of course what was really desired was an _edge_. Say,
double or triple that rate of acceleration when needed.

Hence the ultracapacitors. These were human-built, and while the technology
had been derived from alien salvage, this time its principles were well
understood and had even been refined upon.

Much of the ship's spare space and cargo capacity had been given over to them,
and to the immense power buses that could shunt gigawatts of power and then
some (there was a certain movie quote that was forbidden on Chief Andow's deck
on pain of Motivation) to the kinetic thrusters, the warp engine, and the
forcefield emitters on the hull as the CIC and the Bridge demanded.

And all of that was without accounting for waste heat and inefficiency. The
energies involved in waste heat alone were somewhere in the same general order
as one of the war-ending nukes of 1945, every half an hour.

_Caledonia_, in short, was a finely-tuned and high-strung Frankensteinian
terror whose engineering team wrestled daily with a seething electrical demon
that wanted nothing more than to lash out, burn through its surroundings,
destroy lives and scorch whatever it could touch.

There was a _reason_ that literally everybody on board pulled double-duty as a
fireman. If not, they might have been lost with all hands today. Things had
run _that_ close.

There was a sickened sound from Able Seaman Wilkes. _"Uuurgh, fuck. I think I
just found Kendrick."_

Andow grimaced inside his mask. "You're sure it's Kendrick?"

There was a note of barely-restrained nauseous hysteria in Wilkes' voice. _"He
looks a bit different right now, chief."_

Andow could imagine. He still had vivid memories of the first time he'd seen a
half-burned corpse. "Okay, go get some clear air, sort yourself out." He told
the young man, not unkindly. Last thing they needed right now was Wilkes
vomiting inside his mask.

_"Yes chief."_

_"That leaves two."_

Andow glanced at the XO. Lieutenant-Commander McDaniel looked just as pale and
grim behind her mask as Wilkes must be feeling, but she was composed. She
turned aside to let Wilkes pass, then inspected the twisted _thing_ that had
once been one of Andow's team.

It helped to think of it as an object, rather than dwell too much on the
vibrant, intelligent engineer who had once lived in it.

"Evans and Patel would have been further back, near the safety locker." Andow
observed.

_"Here's hoping."_ McDaniel commented. _"I assume this bank's a write-off?"_

"Not necessarily." Andow ran a practiced eye over the damage. "In fact it
looks a lot worse than it is - the insulating foam held up well enough. I
wouldn't trust anything aft of… here," He gestured towards the fifth rack of
capacitors, "But everything forward of that should be okay, once we've cleaned
it up and checked it's safe."

_"So we've got some cap."_

"Enough to limp home, ma'am. Once we're able to charge it."

Wilkes returned with a bit of colour in his cheeks and a determined look in
his eye. Andow gave him a nod.

They picked their way past the unfortunate Kendrick's remains, and Andow just
had to exhale relief when he saw a happy green light shining bright through
the smoke haze. At least one person had made it inside the safety locker.

He knocked on its solid door, and got two strong knocks back.

The panel next to the station - sturdy and almost antique technology built
robust enough to survive practically anything - crackled. _"Chief? That you?"_

Patel. _That_ was a real relief - the whole reactor team's morale would have
taken a gut-punch if 'their girl' had been harmed, backwards and slightly
sexist though that maybe was. Old instincts died hard, after all.

"Sure is." He told her, warmly. "Evans in there with you?"

_"He's a bit scorched, but we're okay. Did Kendrick-? He was right next to it
when it…"_

"I'm afraid not." Andow gave a respectful moment of silence. "Air masks on,
hooky." he told her, using the slang for a leading rate.

_"Yes, chief."_

There was a pause, then three bangs on the door, and Andow hauled the wheel
over to unseal the emergency station.

Patel wasn't entirely unscathed herself, having obviously only escaped a
painful burn thanks to her white anti-flash hood, which was sporting a large
black patch where some extreme heat had licked across it. Evans hadn't been so
lucky - his own anti-flash gear had plainly spared him the worst of it, but
his sleeve was so badly scorched that even its flame-resistant fabric had
burned through, and behind his flash hood his eyes were pinched and pained.

Wilkes escorted the wounded able seaman away for medical treatment.

"What happened?" Andow asked.

_"I really don't know, chief."_ Patel shook her head. _"Daily inspection was
going just fine and then… Bang!"_ She wiped soot off the monitor at her
workstation, but it was melted and scorched beyond any hope of function. _"It
happened while we were testing rack eight. Is the rest of the ship okay?"_

"She will be." Andow promised. "But we've got bigger problems."

_"How big?"_

"We had to dump the cap."

The whole team knew what that meant. It meant that every relay and power cable
in the whole grid would need safety-checking, but more than that, everyone in
engineering was acutely aware of the current charge level of the cap at all
times. At the point of crisis, it had been something like 95%.

An emergency discharging of all of that energy into space via the forcefields
would have looked like a nuke going off. A _big_ nuke. There was simply no way
to stealthily get rid of that kind of energy quickly.

_"So… the locals know we're here."_ Patel surmised.

McDaniel, who'd been recording her account for later analysis, nodded and
tucked her tablet away under her armpit. _"Oh yes."_ She agreed. _"They
know."_

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

"No, director, I can categorically rule out Hunters." Xkk' restrained the urge
to give a derisive snort. If he even _suspected_ Hunters, the odd ship he was
considering would already be an expanding sphere of debris. The construction
was all wrong and in any case Hunters relied on the very best in active cloak
technology, whereas this ship seemed to have been altered after its
construction to instead rely on passive means that reduced its sensor
signature by a frankly astonishing degree.

Even at only a few kilometers distance, even though it was attempting no
maneuver and was drifting listlessly in its orbit, the sensors of every ship
in his fleet were having a hard time keeping a solid lock. That was not a
Hunter approach to ship design. The Hunters either wanted you to know they
were there, or they did not. If they did, you _knew._ If not, you did not.

Nor was it a Celzi tactic. Nor a known Dominion one.

That left only a few possibilities, all of which were awkward, and one of
which was downright worrying.

_"Well, who does that ship belong to, then?"_

Perfection's Planetary Director had good reason to be nervous - his
predecessor had 'ceded' the position to him in the aftermath of an attack by
the so-called 'Human Disaster' that had caused massive disruption, and
Director Luz's position was maintained on the promise to Perfection's citizens
and (more importantly) its corporations alike that the security and protection
of the system would take top priority.

"I refuse to speculate ahead of my evidence." Xkk' told him, pointedly using a
Corti turn of phrase. "You will know as soon as I have something conclusive to
report. A'vkrnkt'k out."

He'd catch some minor trouble for so readily dismissing the being who was
supposed to be his superior, but today was not the day to worry about that.

Today was a day to worry why the system defence grid's sensors had abruptly
and without warning detected an enormous burst of microwave radiation in high
orbit above the fifth planet's eleventh moon, at the precise co-ordinates now
occupied by a ship that matched no known pattern or shipyard and which seemed
to be operating on the bare minimum of emergency power, if it was operating at
all.

Being a Rrrrtktktkp'ch came with some physical advantages, chief among them
being four arms and the hand-eye co-ordination to use all of them dexterously
and comfortably at the same time.

Interacting with two datascreens simultaneously was a perfectly routine trick
that most children of his species learned early on in life and never let go
of. So, with his left hands he processed reports from the fleet and the
opinions and thoughts of the shipmasters serving beneath him, and with the
others he assessed the state of his own ship.

The strange ship wasn't responding to hails. Xkk' could hardly blame it - if
he was any judge they had suffered a bad fire on board. Plenty of the tell-
tale signs were there, not least was a small but noticeable increase in the
local gas density - vented atmosphere. Not the ideal way to rescue a section,
but undoubtedly effective.

The aftermath of that would be taking stock of the wounded and dead, a
thorough assessment of ship's systems to ensure that the fire wouldn't spring
up again the second they relaxed, and preliminary repair work. Fires were
serious.

One of his datascreens flagged some new data for his information, and Xkk'
bowed his head upon reading it - a gesture of resignation and trepidation. It
was strong supporting evidence for his 'downright worrying' scenario.

Humans had been spotted on Perfection.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Chief Michael Andow_**

Seeing Captain Bathini without his trademark turban was a sure sign of things
having gone badly tits-up in the recent past, and things looked set to remain
that way for the foreseeable future. They were still at quarters, and anti-
flash gear was a great equaliser that brought Sikh, Christian and atheist
alike together under a thick layer of Nomex.

It also made the captain's expression unreadable as he listened. McDaniel's
tally of the wounded - about a third of the crew were suffering from an
assortment of injuries in the form of burns, heat exhaustion and smoke
inhalation, plus one Able Seaman who'd managed to concuss himself scrambling
up the stairs. Petty Officer Kendrick had been the only fatality thus far, but
there was a badly injured leading rate in the infirmary with an unhappy
prognosis even assuming he survived.

Still: the list was a much shorter one than it could have been. There had been
a hairy moment on C deck aft where, if not for the vacuum lockers and an
emergency vent, they might have lost ten ratings and the MCM. Andow knew that
Bathini would have hated himself for doing so, but if it was a choice between
eleven men or the whole crew, everybody on board knew that the captain
wouldn't have had the luxury of hesitation in blowing them all into space…

No matter. Whether by luck or skill, it hadn't come to that.

The butcher's bill on _Cally_ herself was worse, all things considered.
Capacitor bank one was a write-off, as was bank five. Bank two, where the fire
had started, could possibly be restored to one-quarter capacity. Banks three
and four had both been badly ravaged. All three of the fusion reactors were
offline pending inspection, but at least they'd been designed to restart at
sea - each one carried a permanent charge sufficient to _hopefully_ reactivate
its own fusion, once it was declared safe.

Six out of every ten of the WiTChES emitters were definitely fried, and the
remaining forty percent needed inspection. The entire surge protection system
needed safety-testing and replacement of the ablative components that had done
their job by being destroyed.

Then there was the scorched life support system, possible heat damage and
warping of bulkheads and pressure walls, possible damage to literally every
computer on the ship, and _nobody_ knew how a kinetic thruster might respond
to the kind of power surges they'd suffered, assuming the thrusters had even
taken a jolt, which wasn't clear.

Fortunately, diagnostics on the warp and jump engines had both returned a
clean bill of health.

Bathini listened to the report without interruption until Andow had finished.

"How did it start?" He asked.

"I don't know, sir," Andow conceded. "It started in bank two, rack eight. As
for how and why… the damage to the rack's so extensive that we may just never
know. It's so badly burned and melted that the damning evidence is probably
destroyed."

"It spread fast from there." McDaniel observed. There was no accusation in her
tone, but there was a query.

"_Cally_'s built-in fire containment was dependent on that pixy dust foam."
Andow explained. He shuffled his feet awkwardly - he loved _Caledonia_, and
saying anything negative about her just felt wrong, but he had a duty to the
truth. "_Too_ dependent on it. All of our refits and modifications helped -
they're probably the reason we only lost one man - but the alien structure and
systems just weren't sensibly designed in the first place."

"You'd think interstellar civilisations would figure out basic fire safety…"
Bathini mused. Andow felt he had to speak up in _Cally_'s defence now.

"In fairness, sir, if we were using the alien-made fire suppression foam, the
fire would have been under control in seconds." He pointed out.

"And we'd all be running around eating each other's faces off." McDaniel said.

"There is that, er, slight downside, yes." Andow conceded.

"Are we going to need drydock time?" Bathini asked.

"Undoubtedly, sir."

"Then the question of how to properly harden the ship against this happening
again can wait. For now, you need to work your magic, chief. How soon can we
be ready for jump?"

"…Three days." Andow replied. The figure was probably a slight overestimate,
but he had learned to be pessimistic when estimating these things. That way
you were either a miracle-worker, or never had to explain why it was taking
longer than promised.

"That's a long time to be sitting here with a curious alien fleet poking at
us, chief." McDaniel observed.

"Ma'am, the only difference between a capacitor and a bomb is how controlled
the energy release is." Andow said. "Any one of the caps in our racks could
sink us. And the capacitors are just the _first_ of the systems we need to
safety-test before we can recharge and jump out. We can be thorough, or we
can, er, explode."

"Let's hope then that commodore Caruthers and the fleet get here before I'm
forced to resort to talking." The captain grumbled. He had an infamous
disliking for diplomacy. "At least the message buoy worked… Go on, chief. You
have work to do."

"Yes, sir."

Andow nodded to his captain and the XO, and got out of there.

All things considered, he'd take half-busted and potentially explosive
gigawatt power systems over wrangling with officers any day.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

The fleet had spread out in a close-range formation, offering maximum sensor
resolution on the crippled ship, along with accurate firing solutions that
offered no hope of evasive maneuvers. A solid and orthodox formation. One that
should have made the fleetmaster feel confident.

It didn't.

"The Capitol Station footage?" His Corti technician was already calling up the
information, but as always with Corti she was taking the request with chilly
grace. "As you wish fleetmaster, but may I ask why?"

"Not the footage, the sensor records." Xkk' clarified. "From the point when
the human fleet arrived."

"Done."

The information arrived instantly.

There was depressingly little of it. Gravimetric sensors had suggested from
gross mass alone that there were four classes of ship in the human fleet.
Beyond that basic datum, the only information they had in detail pertained to
the smallest and lightest class, a strike craft about twice the mass of a
conventional starfighter which seemed to be capable of flinging itself through
a combat volume at unheard-of accelerations, easily winning the kinetic energy
advantage over its adversaries.

This ship in front of him, however, was a perfect match for the estimated mass
of the two largest ships in the human fleet.

He called up a simulation of the battle and focused on the tiny human force.
The first hint of its arrival had been a salvo of firepower that apparently
travelled at warp. Against the sheer scale of the swarm-of-swarms that salvo
had achieved little, but it had seeded the intervening space between the swarm
and the human fleet with gravity spikes, keeping the Hunters at arms' length.

That extreme range was unorthodox all by itself. At such distances, the
slightest maneuver by anything capable of a warship's acceleration profile
would completely ruin a firing solution, and so extreme-range kinetic
bombardment was reserved for ambushing fleets at anchor or relative-stationary
large objects such as station. After which the fleet would then close to
medium engagement range to press the advantage on a depleted and shocked foe.

The humans of course had invented their starship doctrine from new principles.
Using warp fields on their weaponry eliminated the need to deflect when
shooting at a moving target, and thus made long-range combat perfectly viable
for them.

Sensor records from anything other than gravimetric sources were patchy at
best, but the mass didn't lie - the two ships matching their damaged mystery's
tonnage had remained at the rear of the human formation, in what was
apparently a supporting role, while the two smaller classes - the smaller and
more numerous of which may actually have been unmanned platforms of some kind,
though that was unclear - formed the leading wave.

So. This was a support vessel of some kind. Coupled with the breathtakingly
quick action of a strike force of four deathworlders on Perfection who had
landed, engaged in a brief pursuit through a marketplace, and then departed on
a ship registered to a private Corti captain…

Oh dear.

He hailed the damaged vessel personally. The time was long past for delicate
probing with queries of concern and offers of aid. "Attention unidentified
human vessel." He announced. Every member of the bridge crew went stiff and
still, listening. "You are in violation of Article Seven of the Dominion
Charter. You are required by law to make contact by any means possible
indicating your surrender to system authorities, whereupon your crew will be
detained and your ship confiscated. Failure to comply will be considered a
hostile act and you will be fired upon."

He was still calculating how long of an interval to give them with which to
respond when the reply came through. The footage he received suggested that
the air on board that ship was still hazy and thick in the aftermath of a
fire, and the white hood that the figure on screen was wearing could only be
protective gear. All that was visible of the human, in fact, were two dark
brown eyes which seemed to focus critically on him even through a camera. It
felt uncomfortably like the being he was addressing was identifying weak spots
to attack.

_"Attention Dominion fleet. As non-signatories of the Dominion Charter, we
neither recognise nor agree to be bound by its authority. Our ship is in
distress and we thank you for your concern, but repairs are in hand. We will
not comply with your order to surrender, and any hostile action taken against
us will be treated as an act of war."_ It recited, tersely. The translator
decided that this specimen was male.

"I am Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k." Xkk' identified himself. "To whom am
I speaking?"

The translator automatically found an equivalent to the rank that the human
named. _"[Shipmaster] Bathini."_ He replied.

"Shipmaster, your species are automatic associate members of the Dominion by
dint of your status as a sapient spacefaring civilization." Xkk' reminded him.
"The Charter is automatically binding to all species."

_"We do not recognise the validity of a legal system which enforces laws that
have not been consented to."_ Bathini replied. _"I repeat; we will not comply
with your demand to surrender. Our ship is not capable of taking hostile
action, and our destruction would constitute murder."_

"Listen here-" Xkk' began, but the human cut comms.

A Vzk'tk comms tech raised a hand. "Fleetmaster?"

Xkk' turned. "Prepare to fire a warning volley. Repeat our ultimatum."

"Sir!" The comms tech insisted, urgently. "There is a fleet coming in at rapid
warp!"

Xkk' turned to his operations screen. Sure enough, there was a bow wave of
distorted spacetime coming in. The gross mass of the incoming fleet was not
high, but its velocity was unbelievable - either every one of them was armed
with a Corti sealed drive, or they had immense power plants relative to their
mass.

"General quarters!" He announced. "Fleet to starburst away from the human ship
at best speed, holding at maximum optimal range."

The fleet spread out like a firework going off, pulse-warping in straight
lines directly away from the stricken human ship and coming to relative stop
again as a spherical shell, some ten kilometers thick with a five hundred
kilometer radius.

The approaching fleet slowed… and stopped nearly half a million kilometers
away. _Far_ outside of the effective range of any gun in Xkk's fleet.

The information he'd gleaned from Capitol Station came to the forefront of the
Fleetmaster's mind. With their warp-capable weapons, the humans would not feel
any disadvantage from the range at all, and already the five ships that had
snapped back into the battlespace's inertial frame of reference were
multiplying. Seven ships became forty-three almost as soon as they were sub-
luminal. six motherships, one support vessel of nigh-identical tonnage to the
damaged one, and thirty-six child ships.

Not a one of them was easy to get a lock on. Their icons in his overlay were
blinking, meaning that they represented only the _probable_ location of a
ship, to within a margin of error of some fifty kilometers. Useless for
targeting purposes.

"Withdraw four-fifths of the fleet." He commanded. "Half to rally on the far
side of that moon, the other half to enter an orbit at warp and await further
instructions."

Fourteen of the human ships - two motherships and twelve child-ships -
vanished off his overlay. A dim, grey icon suggested where they were _likely_
to be if they drifted along their last known vector. These too were blinking,
worthless.

That seemed to end the opening moves for now. With the human fleet
unassailable and the bulk of his own fleet withdrawn to safety but ready to
return at a moment's notice, Xkk' could breathe a little more easily and
consider his next move.

"…Hail their fleetmaster." He ordered.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

"The ETs want to parlay, sir."

Caruthers nodded, satisfied. His nonhuman counterpart had demonstrated
respectable intelligence in withdrawing the bulk of his fleet in the face of
an insurmountable tactical disadvantage. What was left behind was still
entirely capable of obliterating _Caledonia_ if so ordered, however.
Ordinarily, he would have let the alien sweat for a few seconds, but this was
too important.

"Accept the hail." He agreed. Calculating, he removed his own flash hood. This
was not a situation for facelessness, and he could put it back on quickly
enough.

He was greeted with the face of an Rrrrtktktkp'ch. One that was verging on
being elderly, if he was any judge. It had a certain… sagging quality to the
skin around its eyes. _"I am Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k."_

The translator rendered the fleetmaster with a male voice. Caruthers nodded
respect. "I am-" he paused, tasting the unfamiliar title, "-_fleetmaster_
William Caruthers. I must ask you to please withdraw the remainder of your
fleet from threatening our ship."

_"That ship is in violation of the Dominion Charter."_ The alien replied. _"I
am bound by law to treat it as a pirate: I must either seize it and arrest its
crew or else destroy it."_

"Allow me to be clear." Caruthers warned. "Any hostile act towards HMS
_Caledonia_ will be met with force."

There was a pause of some three seconds or so, brought on by light-lag. The
alien's reply surprised him.

_"Are you saying that this ship is not a pirate vessel, fleetmaster? Is it
perhaps present on a mission authorised by your species' government?"_

His counterpart was a shrewd bugger, at least - he was offering Caruthers a
way out. If Caruthers confirmed that _Caledonia_ was present on an authorised
mission then that would negate the Charter violation. Yes, it would be a
diplomatic incident instead, but that really changed nothing. This already
_was_ a diplomatic incident.

Besides, diplomatic incidents could be smoothed over, relationships repaired
and bridges mended. _Caledonia_ and her crew, meanwhile, were irreplaceable.
Not to mention the security risks - With her power systems so badly damaged,
there was no guarantee that the ship's computers could be properly sanitized,
which could become a potentially catastrophic security leak if the ship was
captured or if an intact hard drive was recovered from its wreck.

"Her mission was sanctioned by my government." He agreed. "Conditional on the
recognition that there is no such thing as a unified human species government.
We represent a faction."

"Then your faction is in violation of Article Three of the Charter." The ET
declared. "Nevertheless, the rules of engagement permit me to grant you the
right to effect repairs and quit the field."

"My thanks." Caruthers replied.

_"We shall… patrol this volume to ensure that the situation does not
escalate."_ His opposite number informed him. _"The element remaining in this
frame of reference will withdraw to a distance equivalent to your own. No
element of either fleet shall approach the damaged ship without first
informing the other fleet and securing acknowledgement. Acceptable?"_

"Acceptable." Caruthers agreed.

_"A'vkrnkt'k out."_

Caruthers sighed relief as the conversation ended. "I call that a win." He
declared.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

Xkk' relaxed and nodded slowly.

"We may consider ourselves victorious." He observed. "Withdraw the on-field
fleet element to a distance of one light-_ri'_"

He watched, satisfied, as the ships obeyed.

"May I ask how, fleetmaster?"

The questioner was Mefr, the shipmaster, whose job was to tend to the business
of running the _Utopian Aspiration_ so that Xkk's attention was freed to focus
on the larger scale. She was Corti, which was a rarity - they usually
disdained military pursuits as unworthy of a rational and inquiring mind. On
the other hand, mastering a heavy system picket - and possibly the fleet one
day - probably appealed to the Corti ego.

"Their fleetmaster just confessed to illegal military activity in a Dominion
system, authorised by a legitimate species faction." Xkk' pressed the
fingertips of his primary arms together confidently. "A few _Ri'_ ago, we were
facing the possibility of a battle that would undoubtedly have angered them,
and I assume you saw how well they fared against the Swarm-of-Swarms above
Garden."

"Quite. Not a fight in our favor." Mefr agreed.

"I know I would prefer to live to old age." Xkk' agreed. "Even if our superior
gross mass might have carried the day, what little I know of human doctrine
suggests that they will target the command first if they are able."

"That would be sensible." Mefr agreed. "It's what I would do."

"So: We save face by securing a confession, they reclaim their damaged ship,
there may be further sanctions against these deathworlders in the aftermath or
at least they may have expended whatever goodwill they earned at Capitol
Station." Xkk' gave a satisfied snort. "As I said. A victory."

"I would suggest, fleetmaster, that they capitulated rather easily." Mefr
pointed out.

"Meaning?"

"If the political damage they will suffer is as severe as you believe, then
their fleetmaster's rapid and uncoerced confession suggests that whatever that
ship was here to do is more valuable to them than the political fallout."

"You think it may have something valuable on board?"

"Something worth risking the ire of the whole Interspecies Dominion." Mefr
agreed. "Even the Gaoians would be obligated to impose sanctions if the
Security Council demands it."

Xkk' snorted and stood. "Those troublemakers would find a way to wriggle out
of it." He declared.

"Be careful, fleetmaster." Mefr advised. "It wouldn't do for a being in your
position to be thought of as prejudiced."

Xkk' glanced around the bridge, and agreed. "Shall we continue this
conversation in private, shipmaster?"

"Of course. Undershipmaster, the bridge is yours."

They stepped into the wardroom.

"So. The question is, what were they up to on Perfection?" Xkk' mused.

"That much is not clear. Two planetary security officers attempted to detain
one of the human agents, only to be incapacitated."

"Incapacitated?" Xkk' repeated, alarmed. He'd heard the horror stories about
what a human's advanced biology could do to ordinary people.

"Subdued and carefully bound. They were completely unharmed, apparently." Mefr
quirked a corner of her eye orbit, a subtle Corti gesture denoting a blend of
mild amusement and grudging respect. "Apparently the human that did this then
jumped off a rooftop."

"…Even in by their standards low gravity, terminal velocity must surely be
fatal?" Xkk' pointed out.

"No body was found. The human appeared to be wearing some kind of advanced
armor system, possibly one with limited flight ability."

Xkk' considered his options. If the humans really were up to something that
they valued more than good relations with the Dominion, then he was duty-bound
to investigate. If, on the other hand, this was simply a case of interspecies
psychological difference then he could not afford to make accusations which he
would later regret.

A circumspect approach was necessary.

"I understand that information brokering is a healthy grey market on
Perfection." He observed.

Mefr was a local. She noded sagely. "Indeed, fleetmaster."

"These brokers. Reliable?"

"Their reputations are their livelihoods, fleetmaster." Mefr said. "The very
best are utterly dependable."

"But expensive, I imagine."

"Many are, yes. The most notorious - and arguably the best - is known as _'The
Contact,'_ though I understand that caution is called for when dealing with
them."

"Why?"

"They are known for being completely fair and reasonable. A favor for a favor,
a boon for a boon."

Xkk' swayed his head. "And that is grounds for caution because…?"

"Once in the Contact's orbit, it's a rare client that can find the
acceleration to break free." Mefr explained. "The Contact has a knack for
spending their owed favors very wisely. And being owed a boon by the
fleetmaster of the system defence force would be…"

"I see." Xkk' accepted the caution with a nod. "Who would you recommend?"

Mefr inclined her head slightly, a gesture that Xkk' knew meant she was most
likely tapping into the shared network of data available to all Corti who
hadn't actually been expelled by the Directorate. "…The current best pick is a
relative newcomer. Believed to be a Chehnasho, goes by the alias _'Dread.'_
Supposedly very effective… What exactly is it that you wish to know?"

"Those humans went to Perfection for a reason. I want to know what that reason
was, or at least where to start looking. Where they landed, what they did
there, how they left."

"_If_ they left."

"_If_ they left, yes. Thank you." Xkk' sketched a gesture of thanks. "I will
leave it in your capable hands."

"Of course, fleetmaster."

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds.**

**_Eleven_**

**++0053++:** _The situation has, unfortunately, unfolded peacefully._

Eleven frowned and sipped at her stolen body's favorite beverage. It paid to
remain in-character even when the risk of discovery was infinitesimal. As far
as anybody in the galaxy who knew her might deduce, Mwrmwrwk was sitting in a
marketplace cafe and enjoying a nice _Kwrw_ and the sunshine.

**++0011++:** _A crippled starship, on an illegal operation, and the situation unfolded peacefully?_

**++0053++:** _The humans readily admitted to the violation. The fleetmaster offered them time to repair and withdraw under-_

**++0011++:** _I'm familiar with the article. Did you engineer an alternate solution?_

Fifty-three's reply had a tinge of wounded dignity, common among Agents who
felt their competence was being questioned.

**++0053++:** _I did. The fleetmaster has been persuaded to investigate the human operation more thoroughly, via an infobroker named 'Dread'._

Eleven finished and paid for the drink, then stood up.

**++0011++:** _Well done. It should be simple enough for me to allow this infobroker to catch up with me._

**++0053++:** _To what end?_

**++0011++:** _It can be no coincidence that my host returned from an expedition which discovered the lost Mwrwrki station, found it under occupation, and then within hours of claiming the bounty a strike force of human special forces attempted to seize her._

**++0053++:** _I understand. That station was equipped with an industrial nanofactory._

**++0011++:** _Indeed. Yet another infraction on their part - Article Twelve of the charter. If we can expose their contempt for interspecies law and force the Dominion to act, it will drive a wedge between the humans and their only ally._

**++0053++:** _The Gaoians? Fleetmaster A'vkrnkt'k is of the opinion that they will find some way to, in his words, 'wriggle out of it'._

**++0011++:** _Not even the Gaoians can 'wriggle out of' a Security Council directive. Not without violating the Charter themselves._

**++0053++:** _And unlike the humans,_ **_they_** _are charter signatories and full members of the Security Council, rather than mere associate members._

Eleven's satisfaction was translated onto Mwrmwrwk's face as a smug expression
and a swagger in her step.

**++0053++:** _How much detail should I give to this 'Dread'?_

Eleven accessed their file on that particular broker. Frustratingly, unlike
most of the other major infobrokers in Perfection's grey market, Dread was not
apparently a user of cybernetics. The Hierarchy's information on them was all
but nonexistent.

That implied either a buffoon or fearsome competence, and Dread's reputation
suggested the latter.

**++0011++:** _Very little, I think. Detail… yes, detail that a ship called_ 'Negotiable Curiosity' _departed from a landing platform near the incident site shortly afterwards and that you suspect a correlation. Let Dread do the rest. If their reputation is accurate, that should be all they need._

**++0053++:** _And what will you be doing?_

**++0011++:** _The opposite of usual good practice: I will be laying a trail._

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Chief Michael Andow_**

There was a snap, a flash and an alarmed squeak from under the third rack.
Andow grabbed Patel's heel and hauled her out from under there sharpish as the
cap bank flashed and raged some more before the surge protectors finally got
their act together and shut off the circuit.

"You okay?"

She lay on her dolly cart for a second, clutching her multimeter to her chest
wide-eyed and hyperventilating, but managed to find a nod from somewhere.
"Y-yes chief. Er… Rack three, box J-seven isn't safe."

The shocked mood among the team evaporated with a minor laugh, which Andow
led. "Thank you, hooky." he said, drily, then turned to Evans. "Get our girl a
cuppa, Abie."

Patel sat up and shook herself off. Being petite and slender meant she always
got the jobs which involved somebody wriggling into a tight space, a role she
normally seemed perfectly happy with. Still, nobody could fail to be unsettled
by having a megafarad capacitor spark angrily a few inches in front of their
nose.

_Caledonia_ wouldn't have been a British warship without a ready supply of tea
on hand. With his arm in a sling and wrapped in burn dressings and bandages,
Evans wasn't much use for anything save fetching, messages, and keeping
everybody hydrated, but he'd got out of the infirmary as quickly as the doctor
would let him to lend his good hand to the repair effort. He made a
surprisingly good cup of tea considering he was having to work off-handed, and
pretty soon Saci Patel was nursing a warm cup of dark brown fragrant liquid.

For any Brit, this was a panacea. Fire scoured the ship? Cuppa. One of your
colleagues burned alive? Cuppa. Malfunctioning ultracapacitor threatening to
spit electrical death in your face? Sit down for a bit and have a nice brew.

Andow for his part marked off the damaged cell on the control software,
permanently killing power to that particular capacitor.

"At this rate we'll be lucky to get above the red line." He grumbled,
referring to the minimum threshold required for the ship to activate its jump
engine and return to Cimbrean. The only lower threshold was the black line:
Minimum life support.

Patel sipped her tea. "We'll get there. Racks two and one are hardly scorched,
if either of them are okay then we'll hit yellow."

"Dammit hooky, let me be pessimistic for once." Andow chuckled. She was right
of course, but it was his _job_ to obsess over everything that could go wrong.

"Nuh-uh, chief." She swigged back the drink in its entirety, lay back on her
dolly and hoisted herself back under the capacitors. "You don't get to bask in
your doom-and-gloom on my watch."

"_Your_ watch?" Andow snorted. She wheeled herself back out from under the
rack long enough to give him a big jocular grin, then vanished again.

Tea. It could fix everything.

**Date Point 10y4m1w3d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds.**

**_Jrm of the Exiled_**

Easily the most dull part of Jrm's work day was the parade of sapient beings
who, apparently lacking basic literacy skills, ignored the signs in fifteen
different languages which directed them to the terminal kiosks, and thus kept
darkening the front of his desk.

Such was the life of a bounty broker, freelance contract agent and general
bringer-together of people. All Jrm really provided was a room full of
bulletin boards and kiosks, and the financial middle-being services between
contractor and contractee.

Not deigning to acknowledge shadows on the far side of his desk was a habit by
now. He just kept watching his fiction series - a truly awful Rauwhyr
dramatization of the opening stages of the Robalin War - and politely informed
the good being that had sought his attention that while he, Jrm, was at
present indisposed, their needs, whatever said needs might be, would most
conveniently and expediently be processed via the digital proxies available in
their immediate vicinity.

"The boards are to your left."

A tablet was set down on the desk in a cybernetic hand. When he glanced at it,
irritated, it had a simple message on it: _'Not boards: Must speak with you.'_

"Don't you speak?" He asked the creature that owned that hand. This thing - a
chehnasho, judging by its height, long legs and digitigrade bipedal stance -
clearly valued its anonymity, as it was wearing a full-length cloak and robes
with built-in privacy field generators that hazed it in darkness. There was an
alarming but almost invisible hint of dull red eyes glowing somewhere inside
that hood.

The tablet was picked up, tapped at, and set down: _'No.'_ it read.

"Don't, or can't?"

This was not dignified with a reply. Instead, when the tablet was set down
this time, it read: _'Kwmbwrw claimed a bounty here recently.'_

Jrm rasped an exasperated wing-buzz and turned to face the cloaked figure
fully. Its height and garments were genuinely unnerving, but he wasn't about
to let that show. He knew immediately which specific Kwmbwrw this _alien_ was
discussing, but he wasn't about to be bullied.

"Lots of Kwmbwrw claim bounties in here." He shot back. "So do Locayl,
Rrrtktktkp'ch, Allebenellin… Chehnasho…" He buzzed again to drive home the
point. "Even the occasional Gaoian."

His desk hummed and alerted him to an incoming transaction of some four
hundred Dominion credits.

"…One particular Kwmbwrw does stand out, however." Jrm continued smoothly.

The tablet was lifted, tapped on, and replaced. _'Name'_

"Mwrmwrwk."

_'That is the one. Why does she stand out?'_

"She found Mwrwrki Station."

This revelation did not seem to impress. Jrm clacked his mandible irritably.
"You have heard of it?"

The tall figure did not react in any way, so Jrm fluttered his vestigial wing
casings irritably and did this… creature… the minor service of copying across
the files on Mwrwrki, along with every scrap of data he had on Mwrmwrwk.

The robed alien gathered its tablet and left without any thanks. Jrm was glad
to watch it go.

**Date Point 10y4m1w4d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

"We are at a distinct tactical disadvantage."

Assorted variations on the theme of dismay rippled around the room as the
nearly two hundred shipmasters under Xkk's command absorbed his words.

Fortunately, If there was one thing Dominion fleets had become very good at
over the long, long years of interspecies relations, it was controlling who
got to speak and when. Rather than being inundated with opinions, Xkk' was
pinged with requests, sorted and prioritized by an algorithm that sorted for
seniority, position within the fleet structure, political relevance to the
subject at hand and a thousand other variables.

The first speaker was the Vgork shipmaster of the heavy system picket _Copper
King_.

_"Fleetmaster, we outnumber them six to one, and outmass them by a factor of
ten."_ He objected. _"Their ships have no defensive shields: our railguns
would shatter them! Under what circumstances is that a tactical
disadvantage?"_

"Numbers, mass and firepower count for nothing if we have an effectively zero
chance of hitting them." Xkk' pointed out. "They control the engagement range,
they control the angles of fire, and our sensors struggled to secure an
adequate lock on the _damaged_ one at extreme close range."

A fellow Rrrrtk shipmaster chimed in. _"Fleetmaster, do we not intend to
honour the conditions of the Third Article?"_

"We do." Xkk' replied. "However we are investigating possible violations of
other Articles, some of which will supersede the Third and compel us to seize
or destroy that ship. If we must do so, then the fleet must be ready to enact
the plan of attack that I have devised."

He called up the simulations he had run. "The humans depend on their warp-
capable weapons and their sensor-scattering hulls. Both advantages will be
negated by closing the fleet to point blank range. At that distance, any one
of our heavy system pickets will have the durability and firepower to smash
them all. The difficult part will be landing the ambush on them before they
have time to respond and evade."

The scale pulled back, showing the command element, the fleet element
currently hiding behind the moon, and the element in orbit around the humans
at warp.

"If I give the order, Second Group-" the element behind the moon lit up "-will
warp _through_ Third Group as it crosses their line of approach. The spacetime
distortions caused by the element already at warp should disguise Second
Group's bow-wave as they accelerate. From that distance, the humans will have
less than a thousandth of a _Ri'_ to react. Even they don't have reflexes that
quick."

The simulation zoomed back in on the human fleet. The icons representing
Second Group shot into the battlespace and instantly deployed gravity spikes.
"Second Group will immobilize the humans immediately upon landing. From there,
the superior firepower and shielding of our ships will do the rest. Any
questions?"

As anticipated, the top of the list was their lone Gaoian shipmaster, whose
ship - the _Racing Thunder_ \- was part of Second Group. _"I must object to-"_

Xkk' interrupted the furry male with a curt swipe of all four hands. "I do not
_care_ what your clan of females will have to say about this, nor do I care
what it will do for your crew's mating prospects. I do not care for your
politics, your personal misgivings, nor for your species' relationship with
these _deathworlders."_ He snapped. "You will _follow orders_ or else be
arrested and tried on a charge of dereliction of duty, and Gao will be
sanctioned for supplying a mutinous vessel to serve in a system defence
fleet."

_"…Under protest then, Fleetmaster."_ The Gaoian bared his teeth angrily and
dropped out of the briefing. Xkk' would discipline the insubordinate creature
later.

One of his fellow Rrrrtk spoke up. "Would it not be more expedient,
Fleetmaster," she suggested "to simply record whatever infraction the humans
have committed and apply sanctions against them? I do not see why engaging
them in battle will be necessary."

"Every _Rik_ they are present in this system is a _Rik_ in which the Hunters
might learn of their presence and swarm down on us." Xkk' pointed out. "Their
occasional probing attacks and raids are bad enough - we all remember the loss
of the _Gurvagah_ the last time they attacked. If the Swarm-of-Swarms were to
come…"

Nods and other gestures of agreement and understanding passed around the
Shipmasters.

"They will be given a fair and reasonable interval to repair their ship and
depart." Xkk' asserted. "But I will _not_ subject the billions of sapients who
call this system home to the threat of being Hunted. Are there any further
questions?"

There were not.

"Make all the necessary preparations, and await my command." Xkk' ordered. "We
will await the result of the investigation."

**Date Point 10y4m1w4d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

"A briefing session, then."

_"Looks that way sir. Every ship in the fleet, all talking to the flagship at
once."_

Caruthers was taking a working lunch _'al desko'_ \- a ploughman's sandwich,
an apple and a coffee. "How long until I get to listen?" He asked, sipping his
coffee.

There was a chuckle from the intel chief aboard HMS _Myrmidon. "We've got the
Watsons working on it right now."_ he said. _"Dominion encryption isn't
anything special."_

"How long?"

_"The computers think an hour or so. In my experience, that usually means an
hour and a half."_

"Good. Keep me posted."

_"Will do, sir."_

The link to _Myrmidon_ closed.

Caruthers sat back and mused on the two salvaged Hierarchy ships. Both were,
frankly, almost a liability. The unhappy marriage of human technology with
integrated systems that had been designed by a civilization literally
_millions_ of years older than humanity was, after all, the reason they were
here. Were it not for their engines, neither ship would have been worth the
hassle.

The Hierarchy kinetic thrusters made all the difference: they were simply more
advanced than the best human effort so far, converting the electrical energy
that was pumped into them into kinetic energy for the ship with greater
efficiency, and by no small margin. While all of the ships in his fleet could
pull a delta-V that would have seriously inconvenienced the crew if not for
the inertia-softening effects of their warp engines, the V-types only managed
to keep up with _Caledonia_ and _Myrmidon_ because they had a third less mass.

That extra efficiency allowed for bigger ships. Bigger ships meant more room
for _Stuff_, and the stuff they carried was absolutely invaluable.

In _Caledonia_'s case, the 'stuff' in question was a small field hospital in
what had been her port landing bay, and the SOR staging area in her former
starboard landing bay.

_Myrmidon_ meanwhile was a flying power plant, armed with more fusion
generators, more ultracapacitor banks and more forcefield emitters than
anything else in the fleet. Once _Caledonia_'s power systems were sufficiently
intact to receive the aid, _Myrmidon_ could provide enough for the both of
them.

Both of those ships, however, carried what Caruthers considered to be the
fleet's most potent tactical assets - the Watsons.

IBM's "Watson" systems were nothing new - they'd been around and gathering
steam even before the Vancouver Incident. Ten years of innovation and
development past that point meant that both ships were carrying banks of
number-crunching supercomputers of staggering power, underpinned by a software
framework that could calculate, correlate, extrapolate, simulate, educate and
even innovate with discomforting speed and precision.

Each of the V-types were carrying a smaller version, which linchpinned the
fleet's electronic warfare capabilities, but the ones on _Caledonia_ coupled
with the dedicated expertise of the men and women of the Fleet Intelligence
Center aboard _Myrmidon_, they were the real nerve centers for the flotilla.
Decrypting the Dominion fleet's communications was a fraction of what they
could achieve, and had _Caledonia_'s power systems been online to lend her own
Watsons to the effort, Caruthers might almost have been able to eavesdrop in
real time.

When it was all up and running, everyone in every CIC in the fleet flirted
with swearing that the ships were almost alive and capable of anticipation.
They weren't so much in charge of a ship's sensors any more as they were
having a conversation with a robust, distributed network of pattern-matching
engines that effortlessly and dynamically switched between independent and
synchronous operations thousands of times a second, sharing their datasets and
dividing their workloads to comb the information they got from every ship,
every Bulldog drone, every Firebird and - when they were present - drones,
satellites and even the SOR's EV-MASS sensors.

Really, the only thing stopping him from being able to run several simulations
of the possible battles that might unfold was the paucity of data regarding
the capabilities of Dominion warships, and _that_ would change if they got the
chance to see them in action today. Every datum they recorded went into those
computers, expanding and improving their store of knowledge. The more they
had, the more they correlated, the more they correlated, the more useful they
became.

Eventually, maybe, he'd be able to turn to them for everything. For now,
however, Caruthers had only his wits and experience to go on.

His wits and experience were telling him that eavesdropping on that alien
conversation couldn't possibly come soon enough.

**Date Point 10y4m1w4d AV**  
**Starship** **_'Negotiable Curiosity',_** **Deep space.**

**_Scott Blaczynski_**

_The outer wall vanishes in a hail of metal and glass shards, dragging them
all with it. Scott wheels sickeningly in the black, all alone as he begins the
plunge towards a world below._

_No control this time, no shields to protect him, no EV-MASS. Just the fiery
sky, licking the flesh off him, burning him away until there's nothing left
but the fire, the rushing ground and death._

_From the outside he watches his buddy burning down from heaven, feels the
stab of loss all over again. 'Horse's voice on the comms, slow and thick with
grief, letting them all know their brother is dead._

_He stops running and leans on a tree. The pain is physical, sickening. As he
fights back on it, the world fades until all he can hear is the rush of his
own breath, sounding less like breathing and more and more like words…_

"Bro!"

Scott's head snapped up as a startled shout aborted itself on the edges of his
teeth. His brain needed a few seconds to catch up, during which time he
hyperventilated, wondering where the hell he was, or why somebody had a hand
on his shoulder, saying "Hey, man. Just a bad dream. Bad dream, that's all…"

His memory finally got its shit together.

Titan was the only other guy on the team who knew the basics of piloting, so
the two of them were working a two-hour rotation in the chair, which _really_
wasn't configured for a human's dimensions. They were coming up on forty hours
in the suit, and all four of them were feeling it, but the time in that chair
was just making things worse. Scott was sore all over, sleeping restlessly if
at all, hungry, worried for _Caledonia_ and all her crew - there were people
on that tub he cared about, after all - and not only was there no respite, but
they'd be stuck in this situation for another five days.

"…Thanks," he grunted, standing up.

Titan took his place, looking just as stressed as he was. "You okay?"

"…I was dreamin' about Thor."

Titan clapped him on the shoulder, nodding understanding. "Do yourself a
favor, pop some Crude. Helped me sleep okay a couple hours." He suggested.

Scott shook his head. "I've only got ten shots left. Wanna save 'em for when
this shit really starts to get bad."

He was handed one of the distinctive bright blue-green Crue-D single-use
injectors. "Here."

"Dude, this is your dose…"

Akiyama nodded. "It'll be fine. I've got twelve after this, and you need to
_rest._ Take that fuckin' thing before I stick it in you myself."

"…thanks, bro."

Titan punched him affectionately in the arm and sat down. "Wanna know the
upside to this bitch?"

"What?"

"This is _good_ training."

Scott chuckled grimly, and applied the injector to the port in his EV-MASS.
There were no concerns about using the same injection site over and over again
with Crue-D. After all, the drug's entire purpose was healing.

"Always the fuckin' optimist," he observed.

"Somebody's gotta be." Akiyama wriggled to try and get comfortable in the
improperly sized seat. "Ain't optimism if it's true, though. 'Horse is gonna
have to re-write our training schedules when we're back."

"Bro, that ain't a good thing!" Scott objected. "'Horse is a fuckin' _sadist_
on training!"

"Yup. 'Cause he's good at his job." Akiyama grinned.

"Fuckin' masochist…"

The Crue-D was working already - he could feel the soreness draining out of
his muscles. Titan used a slightly larger dose than Scott usually did, and the
difference was palpable.

"Go to sleep, dumbass." Titan ordered him. "You're back here in two hours."

"Right."

One nice thing about alien spaceships was that they built their doors and
walkways wide enough to accommodate even species as big as the Locayl, Vgork
and Guvnurag. The SOR were used to turning slightly to comfortably traverse
doorways, especially in the cramped and narrow layout of HMS _Sharman_.
Meanwhile, even the _Negotiable Curiosity_, a small research ship, was
spacious enough for SOR operators in full gear to comfortably navigate
unimpeded.

Backstage, Rebar was asleep against the wall. Clearly it was Sikes' turn to
watch the ETs.

Calvin Sikes was reckoned as the 'pretty one' among the Operators, with there
being some debate as to what order the runner-ups were between Akiyama, Ares
and Major Powell. He'd grown up ranching horses and flinging hay bales in
Georgia, and still had those straight-jawed, stubbled, right-out-of-a-country-
music-video good looks on top of the Herculean SOR physique. He was also their
combat camera and drone operator, and for lack of anything better to do he was
tinkering with their Flycatcher UAV when Blaczynski entered.

"That thing ain't busted is it?" Scott asked him.

"Nuh. Try'na set it up as an alarm so it'll warn us if the ETs leave their
rooms." Sikes replied. He looked up and shrugged. "…Somethin' to do. Shouldn't
you be sleepin'?"

"Dude, you're worse than old lady Akiyama in there." Scott grumbled. He lay
down perpendicular to Rebar and used the sleeping man's chest for a pillow.
"Least he gave me a fuckin' _chance_ before he started nagging…"

"Heard that!" Titan called from up front.

"Love you, bro!" Scott called back, settling down. Rebar grumbled something,
rolled over slightly and put an arm round him. This was nothing remotely
unusual for SOR \- in fact, it was exactly what Scott needed.

He relaxed as best he could considering he was wearing a full-body juice
press, put his head down, and tried not to dream.

**Date Point 10y4m1w4d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Technical Sergeant Martina Kovač_**

"Owww… Ow."

"You're lucky to be alive, tech sergeant. You can stop squirming now."

Martina gritted her teeth, sucked air through her teeth, held her breath and
let the nurse work. It was difficult. Painkillers and dressings be damned,
when her burns were exposed to the air for the dressing change, it _hurt_. Not
as bad as the first few minutes had been, but still more than enough.

"There we go." The nurse started layering new dressings onto the worst areas,
her back and thighs. "It's already showing progress. You'll have a scar, but
it'll be a tale to tell the kids."

Kovač just nodded, though she relaxed as soon as the worst of the burn was
covered. Those bandages worked very well. The IV was annoying, but doctor's
orders were doctor's orders.

"Unless you're planning to use that miracle drug of yours," the nurse added.

"I could…" Martina agreed, though she was wrestling with her conscience versus
her responsibilities. She had the authority to prescribe Crue-D, but only to
SOR, including herself and the suit techs.

Knowing there was a man somewhere nearby with God-knew how much of his face
burned off made her reluctant, though. A strong dose of Crue-D would repair
his injury with no scarring at all, if only she could get the authority to
administer it - authority that could only come from a few sources.

Authority that couldn't possibly arrive quickly enough. Crue-D needed to be
administered early in the healing process, preferably before it was even
properly begun. For serious injuries, the window was about three days, half of
which time was already gone.

"Or…" she flinched as the nurse applied pressure to wrap on the dry bandage.
"…I can think of somebody who needs it more…"

The nurse's hands paused. She met Martina's eye, then glanced around guiltily.
"He's in a bad way." She confided. "Lieutenant Bailey's not sure he'll make
it."

That settled it. "I'll need help getting to the medical locker in starboard
hangar." Martina whispered.

"Won't you get in trouble?"

"I'll live."

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds**

**_Vakno, "The Contact"_**

"A verified trace on Mwrwrki Station. Now that _is_ interesting."

_'Yes'_

"You can unwind here, Dread. There are no secrets between us."

Dread hesitated, then put away his translation pad and spoke his curious
native language. Vakno had needed some refinement and research to get her
translators to handle it properly, though her best efforts had given it a flat
and neutral interpretation of his speech patterns.

"You have plenty of secrets. Meanwhile I have no secrets from you, is that not
so?" He observed.

"Astute as always." Vakno agreed. "Were you able to secure the sensor data?"

"The broker had already completed his transaction. I am tracing the pilot."

"And what," Vakno asked him, "do you make of the news that the pilot's ship
was stolen by four humans, one of whom chased her through a marketplace?"

Dread did not reply verbally - the most he communicated on the subject was an
expressive gesture of disinterest.

"No comment at all?"

"I avoid humans."

"For most of us, that's a good idea." Vakno commented. "Though the worst
setback I ever suffered myself was the work of one of my own kind…"

Again, Dread said nothing. He had a frustrating distaste for small talk, which
made him a difficult being to get much leverage over - he gave away far less
in conversation than Vakno would have liked.

If he wasn't so deeply in her debt from their first meeting, she would have
held nothing over him at all, which was an awkward position to be in with
fellow infobrokers. Vakno remained at the top of the heap simply because every
single one of her "competitors" existed in an ecosystem that she controlled,
all of them caged behind glass walls of debt and lured with the tantalizing
promise of being free of that debt.

A promise that she did make good on, now and then. Without the authentic
prospect of freedom to incentivize them, her debtors might realize sooner
rather than later just how brittle those glass walls really were.

Dread, she suspected, knew _exactly_ how brittle they were, and abided them
purely because it suited him. She had prepared contingencies to release him
from her debt at a moment's notice, and made a point of treating him with
punctilious fairness - a wise policy with any of her debtors of course, but
taken just that little bit further with Dread so that it bordered on outright
generosity. Vakno had a keen nose for which beings it was best not to
antagonize.

"You seem to have this well in hand," she mused. "Why consult with me?"

Dread's preferred mode of locomotion was to stalk. This he now did, patrolling
back and forth in front of Vakno's desk for a moment before speaking.
"Something about this seems unusual." He declared.

"Besides the involvement of formal, authorised human military assets?"

He gestured acknowledgement. "The pilot's trail is too easy to follow. Easier
than if she was behaving normally. I think that she is luring me."

"She knows you're hunting her?"

"Yes. I do not know how."

"And inviting you in… interesting." Vakno ran an immediate cross-check between
Mwrmwrwk and the fleet Shipmaster who had commissioned Dread's services. The
only correlations were meaningless - similar species-adjusted age, both
female, both using Amnag-Dwuz implant suites… Nothing of substance. The only
significant correlation was time spent in the same star system, but given that
Perfection had a total system-wide population in excess of ten billion life
forms, with both Corti and Kwmbwrw being respectively the second and third
largest demographics, that was no connection at all. Vakno herself matched all
of those data points.

"The target and the client don't appear to be connected," she decided.

Dread didn't comment. Instead, Vakno caught a glimpse of his cybernetic limb -
the only part of his body that he allowed any being to see - as he shook the
sleeve of his robe irritably and thoughtfully, then flexed its fingers in
front of his face.

He was an odd one, but the intimidating persona was commendably effective.
Everything he interacted with seemed to be either disturbed enough to tell him
what he wanted, or irritated enough to ensure his rapid departure.

"You can handle any trap she might be setting." She reassured him.

"Yes. It is good to know when you are walking into one, however."

"Do you think you are?"

Dread simply gestured what was either disinterest or resignation.

"If you need my further assistance, please do call." Vakno told him.

"Yes."

He stalked out. Vakno thought for a minute and made a few observational notes
in her file on him, then set him aside for now and called for her next
customer.

There was always a next customer.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Starship** **_'Negotiable Curiosity',_** **Deep Space**

**_Bedu_**

Bedu was not a scientist. He preferred to think of himself as an engineer, a
solver of practical problems. That the problems in question had nothing to do
with engines and everything to do with missing people and hidden knowledge was
largely irrelevant - he was presented with a problem in need of a solution,
then devised and deployed that solution.

The scientific method was second nature to any self-respecting Corti, however.
Observe, correlate, hypothesize, eliminate. And his human abductors made for
interesting subjects even in the absence of any sophisticated scientific
apparatus or prepared testing regimes.

If only he'd had access to the Corti implant-net's databases on deathworlders,
but they'd shut down every transmitter the ship had - he couldn't interface
with it at all. Without being able to reference a baseline 'normal' human, his
conclusions about these four were tentative.

They were undoubtedly using some kind of Cruezzir-based medicine, which
presumably meant there was a discreet but formal trade between whichever human
faction they represented and the Directorate. Sadly, Bedu judged that his own
value to the Directorate was probably far less than the value of such a
program. No bargaining chip or negotiating tool was to be had there.

What was intriguing, however, was their social behaviour.

They were a study in opposites. Their every interaction seemed to be either
precisely businesslike and structured, or else laden with informality,
affection and aggression. Any of their more relaxed encounters always involved
at least _one_ of them being insulted, and yet grievous and unforgivable
personal attacks seemed to _amuse_ them, and be met in kind with ever-broader
smiles. Infuriatingly, whenever Bedu had tried to slip a veiled abuse past
them, they had detected it and, worse, had found it _funny_. Delightful, even.

The very worst part, however, was that Bedu was beginning to find that he
liked them. For the first time since he had purchased the _Negotiable
Curiosity_, he found himself in the company of his intellectual peers.

They controlled their conversations carefully in his presence, never giving
away the details of how some of their equipment worked or what it could
achieve, but were happy to discuss the function of others.

The one called 'Starfall' even partially disassembled his weapon for Bedu's
entertainment, performing what he called a 'field strip', in which he
carefully laid down the weapon's working parts. He explained each one's
function as he meticulously inspected, cleaned and reassembled each component.
Then, under the watchful eye of the senior one, 'Rebar', he repeated the
process blindfolded and in a third of the time. Not a movement wasted, not a
spare instant of hesitation.

Over the course of the diurnal cycles following their capture, Bedu spoke with
all of the humans in time. With Rebar he shared an intriguing conversation
about the ship's structural features, how the design had saved weight without
sacrificing on strength, and the precise composition of its titanium alloy.

Titan enthused at length about Dominion user-interface technology and the
implications in the near future for human consumer electronics and especially
what it would mean in conjunction with what he called 'Predictive Dynamic UX',
whatever that was.

It was 'Snapfire', however, who produced the most surprisingly enjoyable
conversation - it wasn't a technical one at all. Apparently the technical
details of his role and equipment were among the 'off limits' conversations,
so instead, after some long awkward silences, he eventually did something that
Bedu hadn't expected.

"Hey… what's your home planet like?" He asked.

Bedu blinked at him, assimilating the question. "What is Origin like?" He
repeated. "Origin is… Origin. The seat and home of the Corti Directorate and
four billion Corti. What is Earth like?"

"Beautiful." Snapfire replied, promptly.

"Define 'beautiful'." Bedu retorted. "Beauty is subjective."

"'Kay, well… is Origin beautiful?"

Bedu considered the question. He'd never actually considered aesthetics in
relation to the Corti homeworld before.

"…Yes, I suppose it is." He decided. "Beauty isn't a subject I think about
often. It's not… encouraged."

Snapfire inclined his head. "So y'all don't have art?"

"Of course we do." Bedu replied. He stood and retreated into his cabin,
returning with his banner. His was a short one - he had no illustrious
achievements, no scientific findings, he had brokered no profitable deals nor
founded any successful corporate venture. The greatest achievement it recorded
was that he was the master of a small private ship. This was admittedly quite
the achievement, and put him a step above the rabble… but every Corti aspired
to a banner that was as long as they were tall, if not longer.

Without neural-implant translators to provide an exact context for his
gestures, Bedu found it difficult to read Snapfire's body language, but he
guessed from the way he shifted his weight forward and inclined his head
slightly that the human was intrigued.

"My record banner." Bedu explained, unfurling the green cloth for Snapfire to
examine, though he didn't hand it over. "At the top is my name, the date of my
creation, the names of my genetic donors… below that is a summary of their
respective accomplishments and any important contributions made by _their_
ancestral donors…"

"Genetic donors. Cold way to talk about your parents." Snapfire opined.

"That is all they ever were to me. I have never met them." Bedu explained. "I
was born from a gestation engine, raised in a creche and educated in a
dormitory school. The only role they have ever played in my life was to donate
the DNA that made me."

He indicated the dense codes that detailed his academic and educational scores
- good, but not exceptional. "I displayed an aptitude for and early interest
in data correlation theory. Here is the second-rank accolade I received for
participating in regional trials in that subject. I received a first-rank
accolade in the local trials. Here is my second-grade accolade for dormitory
school graduation. Here is my third-grade accolade for graduating higher
education, though the silver circle next to it means that I was favored with
special mention from my direct educator."

Snapfire seemed genuinely interested, so Bedu continued. "Below that are my
professional achievements - this ship, and a few of the more notable bounties
I have claimed and commendations by my employers - and finally below that is
the space where the accomplishments of my descendents would be summarized, if
I had any."

Snapfire scratched at the short hairs on his face. "Is it _art_ though?" He
asked.

"Define 'art'." Bedu replied, feeling that he was repeating himself.

"Uh, a lot of smarter people'n me have wrassled with that one." Snapfire
demurred, but he made an attempt. "For me though… I guess art doesn't have a
purpose except to _be_ art. I like your banner, it's interesting, it's pretty,
but it has a _job_, right? It's not just there to just _be art_."

"Art is nothing more than decoration to you?" Bedu asked.

Snapfire frowned, sat back and scratched at his head. "Nah, nah, it's more'n
that…"

"If it doesn't serve a purpose and just _is_ then it is purely decorative, is
it not?" Bedu replied.

"Nah, uh…" Snapfire looked up at the ceiling and made a number of noises to
himself that the translator decided were gibberish. It was a peculiar
thoughtful quirk.

"Think he's got you there, Snap." Rebar declared, having apparently been woken
by the conversation.

"I ain't exactly the right man to talk to about this!" Snapshot protested.

Rebar nodded. "You got that right."

"Hey!"

"Brother, I've heard the kinda music you listen to. You wouldn't know artistic
talent if it rammed a paintbrush up your ass."

"You were doing perfectly well." Bedu hastened to interject, before the usual
boorish back-and-forth could resume. "But consider - Artistic creations are
not the meaningless emergent artefacts of an unintelligent universe, they are
made by a person. A star has no purpose except to be a star, but this banner?
A painting? Music? Everything a sapient being creates is created for a
_purpose_, even if that purpose is nothing more than amusement or decoration."

Snapshot made a thoughtful sound. "So you're saying art can't just be art for
art's sake, it's gotta _do_ something."

"He's right." Rebar said, after Bedu had imitated a nod for them. "Hell, look
at the Mona Lisa. That's a portrait of some dude's wife that he had done as a
gift for her. And modern art's all about making a statement of some kind."

"Since when are you into modern art?" Snapfire asked.

Rebar frowned at him. "Dude, you've seen my sculptures."

"You bend and weld scrap metal together." Snapfire replied.

"They're sculptures! A lotta them mean something, too."

Snapfire blinked at him. "…They do?"

"Fuck, bro. You're lucky I like ya, 'cause now I'm actually offended."

Despite being a quarter again as tall as Bedu and only physics knew how many
times heavier, Snapfire suddenly looked… small.

"…Sorry."

There was a pause, then Rebar exhaled through his nose, shook his head, and
gave Snapfire a hug.

Bedu tried to incorporate their behaviour into his tentative model of human -
or at least _these_ humans' - psychology.

It went something like this: There was a clear order of seniority among these
four, that was never challenged. Rebar would occasionally speak in a subtly
different tone of voice, and the other three would respond with immediate and
unhesitating obedience. This was, however, rare. When Rebar used that "leader"
tone, he did so in order to confirm and initiate a plan that the group had
devised between them. Otherwise the four behaved more like…

Bedu had struggled for some time to come up with a simile that fit well into a
Corti brain, and had given up. Coming as he did from a species of fiercely
competitive mycovores, the xenopsychology involved in the social dynamics of a
pack of predators was tantalisingly tricky to fathom, especially when they
didn't behave like a _classic_ pack of predators. While Rebar was undeniably
the top of the social hierarchy, his behaviour wasn't the equivalent of a
snarl or a snap from a dominant animal to one lower in the pecking order… and
yet Snapfire had instantly made himself as non-threatening and submissive as
possible, just like one would expect if Rebar _had_ snapped at him.

Mutual conflict avoidance followed by an immediate display of reconciliation.
There was no social advantage to it either, at least not in any classic
xenopsychological model - the only witness to the exchange was Bedu, who was
obviously not inclined to care. There were no females to impress with displays
of restraint and emotional maturity, nor would the interaction have any clear
benefit in their standing with other males… which meant that the only possible
conclusion was that Rebar and Snapfire _genuinely liked one another_.

Corti xenopsychological orthodoxy held that sapient beings typically only
liked one another when there was a benefit to them or their genetic fitness in
doing so, one which offset the presence of a competitor. It was natural
therefore for prospective mates to like each other, and for parents and
children to be mutually friendly. Interspecies friendships were easily
explained by the fact that neither member of the friendship was a competitor
with the other.

This raised the interesting question of whether humans were an exception to
that doctrine or how, if they were not, they were abiding by it.

"May I ask a question?" Bedu asked.

Snapfire and Rebar glanced at each other. If any kind of communication took
place, Bedu couldn't see how, but Rebar shrugged and nodded. "Sure."

"_Why_ do you like him?"

The question seemed to completely trip up both of the humans, if he was
reading their body language correctly. Neither of them replied at first -
instead they stared at him, looked at each other, stared at him again. Rebar
opened his mouth to venture something, then frowned and scratched at his head.

"…We're a team." He said at last, as if that was sufficient explanation. It
clearly sufficed for Snapfire, who nodded.

"A team, yes, but what is it about _this man in particular_ that you find
likable?" Bedu insisted.

Rebar scowled at him, and Bedu sensed that he'd managed to wound the human
somehow. "We've been through shit together that'd leave you as a greasy
fuckin' smear on the deck." He said. "I trust Snap with my life, and he's
worth that trust. What more reason do I need?"

The explanation satisfied Bedu, and in retrospect should have been obvious.
Reciprocal affection generated team cohesion, thereby mutually improving the
odds of both their survival in a dangerous situation. An instinct that made
perfect sense given that these were _deathworlders_ after all - their entire
home planet was a dangerous situation.

"I meant no offense." Bedu soothed. "It's in my nature to be seek explanations
for the unexplained."

"Satisfied?" Snapfire asked.

"I am, thank you." Bedu told him. "Though, another question does present
itself."

"Shoot." Rebar offered. Bedu needed a moment to parse what was presumably a
colloquialism.

"Correct me if I am in error…" he began "But your behaviour towards me
personally has been entirely friendly. I daresay I've never had such warm
company before in my life. I am curious as to why that should be seeing as I
am, after all, your prisoner."

"We're not in the business of makin' enemies." Rebar said.

"Heck, we got enough of 'em already…" Snapfire added _sotto voce_.

"…What's happened here is you've been regrettably caught up in events." Rebar
finished. "If things go as we hope, you should be back in command of your ship
and on your way again before long."

"That doesn't explain the personable reception." Bedu pointed out. "What does
it benefit you to… 'charm' me?".

"What'd it benefit us to antagonize you?" Rebar replied. "Like Snap said, our
kind have a lotta enemies right now, lotta bad press. It can't hurt us to
leave you with a good impression, and might even help."

"Ah." Bedu nodded, admiring the human's candour. The logic was perfectly
flawless. "Thank you."

He put his banner away. "For what it may be worth…" he said, "I'm genuinely
fascinated to meet humans at long last. You're very different to all of the
speculation and rumor."

"Gotta be honest, I ain't paid much attention to the speculation and rumor."
Rebar said.

"For a typical perspective, look no further than my reclusive colleague." Bedu
told him. He knocked on the wall. "Hkzzvk! Are you still alive in there?"

_"You can't open this door!"_ Hkzzvk called back. _"I overrode the door lock!
They can't get in!"_

Bedu aimed an expression of barely-patient tolerance at the humans, who for
their part seemed genuinely concerned.

"Seriously, is he gonna be like that the whole way?" Snapfire asked.

"'Cause if he has a heart attack from the panic or whatever, we won't be able
to do shit for him." Rebar agreed.

"Especially seeing as he's overridden the lock." Bedu observed. "Or would that
not be an obstacle?"

"Dude. If I wanted to I could kick that door so hard that Hicks-vick there
would be in danger from the shrapnel." Rebar said, in the calm tones of
somebody who _wasn't_ boasting. He kept his voice low enough that Hkzzvk
probably couldn't hear.

"Titan could get it open the gentler way in a couple of [_Ri'_]." Snapfire
added.

"Vzk'tk psychology being what it is, I suspect that either approach might well
kill him." Bedu said. "This is what you are up against, unfortunately. Hkzzvk
may be annoyingly stupid, but in this case it has nothing to do with
intelligence and everything to do with instinct. He is a herd grazer, and he
has been cornered by predators with nowhere to run."

"Wild horse in the stable, huh?" Snapfire scratched his chin and stared
intently at the door, calculating.

Bedu wondered what he was thinking. There were enough similarities between
Corti and human facial expressions as to make assessing Snapfire's thoughts
tantalizingly impossible. "He is not unique," he said. "Reactions like this
are exactly why you have 'a lot of enemies'. You don't, in fact, have a lot of
enemies. Your only _enemies_ are the Hunters - everything else is panicking."

Rebar chuckled. "Nah, see, when my boy here starts talkin' about wild horses,
he's thinkin' of trying to break it in," he explained. "Ain't that right,
Snap?"

"_Break_ him?" Bedu asked, hoping that the colloquialism was not as horrifying
as it sounded.

"Break him **in**." Snapfire stressed the word, as if that explained it. "It's
a ranching term. We've got these animals on Earth - horses - our ancestors
domesticated them thousands of years ago, but they're still panicky herd
animals. Breaking them in means forcing them to trust humans."

"How can you _force_ trust?"

"Easy. You give them no other option _but_ to trust, then reward that trust."

"Hkzzvk is not an animal except in the same technical sense that we are." Bedu
pointed out.

"You said it yourself, he's running on instinct right now…" Snapfire retorted.

Bedu thought, then acquiesced. "It is probably for his own good if some
attempt is made to calm him." He agreed. "Prolonged stress really could cause
him serious harm."

Rebar's hand slammed down onto Snapfire's shoulder so hard that Bedu flinched
- the friendly blow would have gravely wounded a Corti, if not killed him
outright. "In that case," he said "I guess we've found something for you to
do."

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Lieutenant-Commander Ellen McDaniel_**

"A good prognosis, then?"

Lieutenant Bailey shifted uncomfortably in his seat. "Ma'am… he's healed. I
swear, LR Davison came into this hospital permanently blinded and with his
face burned down to the _bone_ in places and severe respiratory injury from
inhaling superheated air. I gave him an _optimistic_ fifty percent chance of
survival… And now he's sitting up in bed laughing and happy and the only way
you would know what happened to him is the missing hair."

McDaniel's expression gave nothing away, but she couldn't resist a moment of
sarcasm. "I take it you've ruled out divine intervention."

"When this ship has a supply of imported alien regenerative medicine on board,
I think we can safely consider the hand of God a secondary possibility at
best." Bailey commented, matching her for dry humour. He looked down at his
desk and sighed. "I hate having to report it, because that young man really
was looking at permanent disability, _assuming_ he survived. This is
unquestionably a good deed… But…"

"There's no way you could conceal this." McDaniel suggested.

"Your words, ma'am. Not mine." Bailey said, but nodded.

McDaniel nodded. "Thank you, Lieutenant. Any other miracles to report?"

"No ma'am. Nobody else needed one. A few dozen minor burns, one or two more
serious ones… we'll be low on painkillers and wet bandages by the time we make
port, and all our burn victims are on antibiotics, but we'll get by."

"What about sergeant Kovač?"

"Kovač? She suffered one of the worst burns after Davison, but you know what
SOR techs are like. The only way to stop her from limping out of here would
have been to sedate her."

"Limping?"

"That's right."

"…Thank you, Bailey."

McDaniel let herself out of the hospital in thoughtful mood. Kovač was her
only suspect in the case of mis-used Crue-D. Indeed, she was the only
_possibility_. If she was still limping despite having unquestioned and fully
authorized access to the alien drug herself…

A team of marines stood aside as she crossed the ship's beam to enter the
starboard flight deck. Starboard Flight had hardly suffered from the fire at
all, with only the hospital faring better - that, after all, had been designed
to isolate itself immediately. Still, when dealing with the ship's largest
pressure door and its most powerful internal forcefield emitters it paid to be
cautious.

"Technical Sergeant Kovač, front and center!" She snapped as she entered.
Everybody who _wasn't_ Martina Kovač immediately found important
responsibilities as far from the XO as possible.

Kovač herself was working at a desk, standing up - sitting was probably not an
option for her right now. She had a resigned set to her body language as she
turned and tried her best to hasten to the officer's call, which was a decent
effort considering her back was plainly stiff, painful and swathed in
dressings.

McDaniel wasn't heartless. The moment Kovač arrived as ordered, McDaniel
indicated for her to stand easy. "You can relax, sergeant. No sense in abusing
that wound."

"Yes ma'am."

So. It was going to be _that_ kind of talking-to. Kovač knew she'd been
rumbled, and was probably both unapologetic and entirely willing to accept
whatever happened next. Her whole attitude said that she would accept whatever
judgement was laid on her as her fair due. McDaniel respected her for that.

"I have an interesting situation in the hospital deck that I suspect you can
shed light on, sergeant." She said. "A man with a grievous injury and a
pessimistic prognosis has, quite suddenly, been healed of that injury."

"Yes ma'am?"

"Do you think perhaps you could have been any _more_ conspicuous?" McDaniel
asked. "Because I know what I'm going to find when I check that medicine
locker's log. I'm going to find everything properly signed for, with your name
right next to the date and time, aren't I?"

"That would be proper procedure, ma'am."

McDaniel sighed and relaxed. "I thought so," she said, conspicuously placing
her tablet aside and thereby metaphorically disarming herself. "How's your
back?"

"It hurts like hell." Kovač admitted.

"Given that you're completely authorized to medicate yourself with Crue-D, I
can only assume that you haven't done so because there's none left." McDaniel
guessed.

Kovač hesitated, but nodded. "That's right, ma'am."

"Only had enough for Davison, did you?"

Kovač hesitated, choosing her words with care. "The… amount required to treat
a man of Leading Rate Davison's size with an injury that severe would
definitely deplete our stockpile…" She hazarded.

"And would you say that's an appropriate use of resources earmarked for the
exclusive use of the SOR?"

"The SOR's mandate is to protect humanity and human interests, ma'am. That
includes providing life-saving medical intervention."

"Hmmph." McDaniel grunted, accepting the reply without comment. "Right. Here's
what's going to happen - I'm ordering you to check yourself back into that
infirmary and you will _stay there_ this time until the doctor says otherwise.
_Do not_ give me a reason to come back down here and talk with you again. Am I
clear?"

"Yes, ma'am."

McDaniel picked up her tablet. "Right. Oh, and- Sergeant?"

"Yes ma'am?"

"If I were you, seeing as you're going to be off your feet, I'd take this
opportunity to get a head start on any _paperwork_ that might need doing in
your near future…" she hinted.

"…Thank you for the advice, ma'am."

McDaniel 'hmmph'ed again for effect and departed, satisfied that Kovač's had
been a calculated and productive act of minor insubordination. The fact that
she was suffering for it was an item in her favour as well, so really there
was no reason to make anything serious of it.

Still… a letter to the younger woman's CO couldn't hurt. Major Powell, after
all, would be compelled to prioritize the mission-readiness of his own unit. A
few polite observations from one officer to another were probably in order.

She added it to the long, long list of demands on her time and attention.
Half-burned-out starships didn't repair themselves.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds.**

**_Eleven_**

Biodroning was not a process that necessarily required sapient life forms -
anything with a central nervous system would do, and Eleven specialized in
using local fauna for reconnaissance and observation.

The perfect creature for her to use right now was a species of avian urban
vermin called a Kreewit. Kreewits were basically a flying appetite, and their
constant search for the next meal, coupled with a generous conception of what
constituted a meal, would have contributed greatly to keeping the streets and
concourses of Perfection free of litter and clean, if not for the inevitable
digestive byproducts.

They were hand-sized, feathery, had a mouth full of flat grinding teeth that
could patiently reduce any organic matter to food, and utterly ubiquitous.
Catching one and taking it to a confused but disinterested and discreet Vzk'tk
veterinarian for implanting with a custom-built cybernetic control package had
been trivial.

Now, it was doing what Kreewit did - scavenge. Given that Kreewit looked
around constantly, seeming to pay attention to the whole world by glaring
suspiciously at it out of the corner of their eyes, nobody was paying any
attention to it. In response to its programming, it followed Eleven, flitting
from light fixture to advertising hoarding, from shop sign to architectural
embellishment, sometimes flying ahead to claim morsels of what only a Kreewit
could possibly decide was food, such as fast-food packaging, or the burnt
leftover ends of smoked cqcq.

Under its watchful gaze, Eleven left a trail.

The rules of Hierarchy fieldcraft when it came to leaving a trail were simple:
Don't. As a double-digit, Eleven had the luxury of creatively interpreting the
rules. As a sub-20, she could ignore them outright if the situation warranted.

In a galaxy where the entire economic system hinged on data footprint, a
digital sapient life-form could be as stealthy or as obvious as they desired.
Had Eleven wanted, she could have moved undetected by juggling as many as
fifteen different identities - to the security systems, she could have been an
office worker called Kwrwrtrwm, while the financial transactions would all
have been under the name of one Wrmwlwlr, the smart advert boards would have
seen a Grand House dilettante, and so on.

Being as loudly and as visibly _Mwrmwrwk_ as possible was an interesting
experience, especially when the advertising systems built into her host's
cybernetics package shook hands with a billboard as she passed it.

The boards used augmented reality to replace whatever they actually physically
displaying with an ad overlay targeted specifically at Mwrmwrwk, usually with
full audio thrown in. Every time she passed another board, Eleven received a
new message in the vein of _'Congratulations Pilot Mwrmwrwk! Your recent
success has multiplied your personal funds by [INTEGER OUT OF BOUNDS]!
Perfection Banking Group is delighted to offer you this opportunity to take
advantage of our exclusive Person of Importance Savings Account!'_ or offering
her an assortment of immensely expensive luxury goods, up to and including her
own ship.

The whole system was deliberately kept insecure by Hierarchy action. Indeed,
keeping galactic data security riddled with holes was the full-time assignment
of aspiring Igraens long before they were assigned the rank of Zero and given
the opportunity to prove themselves in the field.

The network, in short, was a rigged game in the Hierarchy's favor, which meant
that the easy way in which Dread seemed to move through it without leaving any
permanent evidence, like a breeze over tall grass, was infuriating. Nothing
that wasn't an Igraen should have had such a negligible data shadow. The only
other way to achieve such stealth was to not interact with the network at all,
which was impossible. The constant barrage of advertising that Eleven found so
amusing was testament to that.

Eleven had commandeered the attention of a datamining group of pre-Zero
hopefuls to trawl for whatever information they could find on Dread, and they
had hardly expanded her information at all, beyond identifying some of the
digital aliases he used for financial transactions. All the commentary on him
agreed that he was most likely a male Chehnasho, that his left arm was at
least partially prosthetic, and that he affected an intimidating costume of
black cloth.

His preferred mode of operation was unusual - most infobrokers had their
clients come to them, controlling the meetings with bodyguards, drones,
forcefields and other such fortifications so as to minimize the risk to their
persons.

Dread, it seemed, preferred to go to his clients, and it was on this foible
that Eleven was depending.

Paradoxically, it took him quite a long time to find her. Eleven _knew_ that
she had been pinging her presence and location as aggressively as possible,
and so the only way to account for his relative tardiness was caution. Perhaps
she had been _too_ aggressively visible, and made him suspicious.

Whatever the reason, Eleven was beginning to doubt his reputation when the
Kreewit finally caught sight of him, tailing her through the crowd.

He wasn't bothering with stealth, and couldn't have accomplished it anyway.
The aura of sheer menace he gave off sent everything in his way scrambling to
get out of it.

Through the biodrone's eyes, she got her first good look at him. He was
definitely Chehnasho - they were the only quadriform bipeds who stood so tall,
with such long legs and a digitigrade gait. The body language was strange,
though - Chehnasho usually stood tall, with their chests thrown out - this one
stalked with his weight forward, arising uncomfortable instincts in Eleven's
host body of being hunted.

The last time something had been following her with its weight forward like
that, it had been that armored human, and that one's footsteps had shaken the
concourse as he ran. Had he not been so reluctant to harm civilians, Eleven
couldn't possibly have escaped.

She turned down an alleyway. They were on a 'roof deck' level of the city,
with no ceiling overhead, but several storeys beneath their feet, and several
buildings rising around them.

The kreewit lost sight of Dread. Eleven stopped in the alleyway and focused
her full attention on her drone, to no avail. She was still wondering how he
could possibly have evaded it when he stepped out from between the dumpsters
ahead of her.

They stared at one another for a second, and then he made a beckoning gesture
- one cybernetic finger stabbed first at Eleven, then at the ground in front
of him.

Eleven glanced over her shoulder to make sure they were unobserved, made sure
the Kreewit drone was in position, and then did as she was bidden.

"Can I help you?" She asked, feigning nerves.

He tapped rapidly on a datapad, which spoke on his behalf: _'Stop pretending.
You laid a trail for me. Tell me why.'_

"Not for you." Eleven lied. "I don't know who you are."

_'Who'_

"What?"

_'For whom did you lay the trail'_

Mwrmwrwk's vestigial personality traits provided the perfect response:
indignation. "What business is it of yours?" Eleven asked. "Who _are_ you?"

_'Dread'_

"Is that supposed to intimidate me?"

He considered her for a second, and then drew a pulse pistol. The unspoken
sentiment was obvious - 'if that doesn't, this will.'

It didn't scare Eleven - she, after all, would just migrate to a new host. But
Mwrmwrwk on other hand would have stared dry-mouthed at the gun and
immediately capitulated, and so Eleven followed suit. "…Consider me
intimidated."

He put it away again. _'For whom did you lay the trail'_

"I have friends. My spaceship was stolen and I-"

_'Why'_

"Why… what, why did I lay the trail, or why was the ship stolen?"

_'Yes.'_

"…What?"

Dread stared at her for a moment, and then stood aside and indicated the rear
access door of the boutique they were behind. When Eleven checked it, the door
was slightly ajar. It swung open silently and when she stepped through they
found themselves surrounded by shelves full of boxes of electronic luxuries -
terminals, communicators, translators, entertainment devices and cooking
appliances.

_'Both questions. Start with the ship.'_ Dread ordered through his pad.

"We had just returned from a deep space investigation." Eleven told him, using
Mwrmwrwk's memory and the ghost of her personality. "The shipmaster - Bedu -
he didn't tell me who the client was, but it was probably one of the
infobrokers here on Perfection."

Dread said nothing, only stared at her. There must have been some kind of
custom privacy field emitter inside his hood, because it gave only the
impression of infinite depth and what might have been baleful unblinking eyes.
Mwrmwrwk would have faltered and stammered, and so Eleven did exactly that.

"The-the, the client wanted to know the, ah, the whereabouts of, of a
spaceship. We found, um… we found Mwrwrki station instead."

'_Explain. Why is this station important.'_

"It was a research station. They were looking for signs of extragalactic life,
and a means of extragalactic communication. You see, um, intergalactic travel
is theoretically possible, you just need an efficient enough drive and plenty
of power an… and…"

She wasn't sure what it was exactly about Dread's body language that
communicated impatience, but she rallied and got back to the point. "…It
vanished. One day it just… stopped reporting back, and when ships were sent to
the Lleyvian Frontier to look for it, they didn't find anything. No wreckage,
no signs of a Hunter raid… the station was just gone. The scout ship
apparently detected some interesting spacetime distortions in the volume and…
well, it all got inflated. There were wild theories like maybe they had
somehow _jumped_ to another galaxy, or maybe achieved extra_dimensional_
communication and some sort of fourth-dimensional being came along and scooped
them up, or…"

Again, Dread said nothing, but he did shift his weight from one foot to the
other.

"…The Grand Houses put a bounty on it, a reward for its discovery." Eleven
explained. "When we found it, however, it had been taken over. The master of
the ship we were looking for had erected a system defence forcefield around
the station and taken up residence.

_'Why would humans be interested in that'_

"That shipmaster is a species traitor, working for the deathworlders. A former
politician. His ship was destroyed [years] ago near the Aru system."

To her immense surprise, he spoke. His actual voice was nothing but coarse
bass. "_Sanctuary._"

"…Yes. How do you know?"

Dread paused, then he reached up and tugged back his hood. The privacy field
flicked off.

Eleven knew all about human ethnic groups, about how their skin tone varied in
adaptation to the scorching surface temperatures their home planet could
reach. She couldn't imagine living on a planet where the star's UV radiation
was enough to burn the natives' skin off, and she certainly hadn't envisioned
that humans were ever a kind of cool deep umber.

It was the eyes, however, that finally succeeded in scaring not just the ghost
of Mwrmwrwk, but Eleven herself. The embers in his hood were far less
terrifying than the the real thing: Dread's eyes hated _everything_.

"I know that ship." He growled. "I got thrown out its airlock."

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Starship** **_Negotiable Curiosity,_** **Deep Space.**

**_Calvin 'Snapfire' Sikes_**

"Hey, uh… hello in there."

There was a kind of wary shifting sound from behind Hkzzvk's door, but no
reply. Calvin took that as an encouraging sign.

"Dude, uh… hey, I'm sorry about this but I can't pronounce your name. Is it
okay if I call you Hick?"

The translator gave Hkzzvk a hysterical edge to his voice. They really did a
remarkable job of simulating where the voice was coming from, too. Rather than
hearing the anxious Vzk'tk's words from a speaker in the wall or anything,
they really did sound like they were being shouted from the far side of the
door. "Leave me alone!"

"I'm not coming in, I promise." Sikes replied, soothingly. "That room's your
space, I respect that. Just checking you're okay in there."

_"Leave me alone!!"_ Hkzzvk repeated, more frantically.

"Sorry man, I can't. We're all worried for you. But I'm just here to talk,
you're safe in there."

There was no reply.

"…Sure appreciate it if you said somethin' other than 'leave me alone' there,
Hick."

He let the silence drag on for a second or two, then decided that the old
trick of just talking and talking and talking until the panicking creature got
used to the sound of his voice was in order. Hkzzvk might be a fellow sapient
being, but hey - whatever worked.

"Okay, well, I'm just gonna sit here and talk about whatever comes into my
head, don't mind me." He said. "Gotta tell you though, I'd love to get this
suit off sometime soon. It's perfectly sized for me, but it squeezes real hard
so it doesn't rattle around, and yeah that's a good thing for makin' it easy
to move in, it also makes it tough to wear for more than a couple of hours. I
ain't lookin' forward to sitting around in this thing the whole way back, I
tell ya that."

Hkzzvk's silence continued, so Calvin shrugged and settled in for a good long
stream-of-consciousness.

"Though… okay, you probably never heard of skiing. Or maybe you did, maybe you
guys have that. Probably not with four legs, but it's this thing we do where
we use long flat apparatus that we attach to our feet and it helps us slide
easily over snow. Takes some work to get good at it, but there's no better way
to move fast over snow. Ski boots work a lot like the suit does, and those
feel _great_ to take off at the end of a day on the slopes, so I'm thinking
when we get to take the spacesuit off after all this it's gonna be… Actually,
have you ever seen snow? Is that a thing on your home planet? Or… Dude, were
you even born on a planet? I know a lot of ETs are born in space. I wonder if
any humans have ever been born in space… It'd be tough for us, I bet the low
gravity would screw with fetal development in all sorts'a ways…"

At length, he rambled on about the estimates in how many humans there were in
the galaxy at large, wondered how they were getting by without easy access to
clothing, and mused briefly about whether any of them had just given up and
'gone native.'

He kept a lazy eye on the clock as he moved on to describing snow, then
weather in general and especially thunderstorms.

"I mean, I guess all'a this sounds scary and alien to you huh? Deathworld
weather and all that stuff but _man_, I tell ya it's beautiful. I remember
when I was little and this storm went over and it was just this crazy
lightning show in the sky. My daddy and I sat on the porch and watched it for
like half an hour, but then momma came out and said there was a tornado alarm
and we had to spend the night sleeping on cots in the basement…"

He decided to move on from the subject of Earth's weather and onto gentler and
more calming matters. He was dealing with a sapient being after all, which
meant that he couldn't rely completely on tone of voice alone - he had to
watch the content of what he was saying.

"Space is prettier though. There's this nebula you can see from Cimbrean, It's
about as big in the sky as my thumb at arm's length and yeah, things like
storms are cool, but that nebula's just like… every time I lay eyes on it it
reminds me that _wow_, y'know, when I was a child we didn't have FTL and
aliens were just something that could _theoretically_ exist, but then… there I
am, living on a planet that's not Earth, and I work in space, and I'm chatting
to an alien right now. That's kind of a-"

Hkzzvk finally said something, interrupting him. "Are you going to talk _all_
night?" He asked. "You're keeping me awake."

"Ah, sorry dude, are you tired?

"I haven't slept since you took over this ship! How could I? You're
dangerous!"

Calvin considered his reply carefully. "I know." He said, eventually. "I know
we are. We ain't the bad guys though, man."

"You're still dangerous!" Hkzzvk insisted.

"I ain't denyin' that." Sikes told him. "But so are lots'a things. This ship's
dangerous, ain't it? Lotta power in here, lots of stuff the engineer's gotta
stay on top of, am I right?"

Hkzzvk said nothing, so Sikes shrugged and carried on talking. Okay, so he was
keeping the alien awake, but really that worked to his advantage. Either the
fatigue would help him calm Hkzzvk down so they could make contact properly,
or else Hkzzvk would fall asleep listening to his voice and awaken rested and
with some positive associations.

"Besides man, imagine yourself in our position. Ten years ago, we didn't know
any of this stuff. None of us had any clue what a deathworld is, or that Earth
is one… I gotta be honest, it kinda scares me too. I don't wanna accidentally
hurt people, right? I ain't a monster."

"Then why are you here?" Hkzzvk asked. "Stay on your planet, where you belong!
Go to other deathworlds! Why are you on _our_ ship?"

"Would if we could, man." Sikes grinned to himself. He was making definite
progress. "Life ain't that easy."

"Why **us**?" Hkzzvk insisted.

"Ain't nothin' personal. You just got caught up in something important, that's
all."

"I don't trust you!"

Sikes sighed. "You should. Hicks, the only reason you're still in that room is
'cause we don't wanna hurt you. Heck, I'm talkin' to ya right now 'cause we're
worried about ya. I ain't askin' for much, just want you to check in and let
us know you're okay."

"I'm _fine!"_

"Sure, sure. Okay" Sikes soothed. He sat and waited for a minute.

"I… _would_ like something to eat, please." Hkzzvk ventured after a while.
"And to drink."

"Our rations wouldn't be any good for you, buddy, and ain't none of us know
one end of your kitchen from the other. You wanna come out here and fix
yerself somethin, we'll turn down the gravity for ya. Whaddya say?"

"…And you _promise_ that it's safe? I won't catch a fatal disease?" Hkzzvk
asked.

"I promise."

There was a thoughtful pause, and then the door cautiously opened. Hkzzvk
peeked around it.

Carefully and respectfully, Sikes took a slow and unthreatening step back. He
smiled, keeping his lips together so that there was no hint of teeth, and
gestured openly to the kitchen.

He could see why people tended to compare Vzk'tk with giraffes - they had that
kind of spindly, ungainly look to them, especially in their long legs and
necks. But Hkzzvk's attitude was more like a deer crossing the road and
keeping a wary eye on the pickup that had stopped for it.

"Ship, set gravity in all areas to Dominion standard." he ordered. The
_Negotiable Curiosity_ chimed and Titan woke with a snort as the gravity
changed. Hkzzvk took an alarmed step back.

"Sorry bro." Sikes called.

"Hey, the hermit emerges." Akiyama sat up slowly. "How are you?"

"I am… fine. Thank you." Hkzzvk ventured. Still moving like a nervous buck, he
picked his way carefully out into the ship's common area.

Sikes gave Titan a subtle headshake, asking for a kid gloves approach. He got
an imperceptible nod by way of a reply, and Titan settled down with his head
on his ruck again. "'Kay. Lemme know if you need anything."

Hkzzvk stepped warily around him and approached the food dispenser. A few taps
later he had a small bowl of something that looked vaguely like dark arugula,
a side order of something black and dripping with what Sikes hoped was sauce,
and a small cup of water.

The bowl came with something like curved chopsticks. Apparently they were
Hkzzvk's customary eating utensil, because he was shovelling the arugula-ish
into his mouth with gusto as soon as he had them in his hand.

"Dude, you had no food at all in there?" Sikes asked him. Hkzzvk flinched at
being addressed, but then nodded. He skewered one of the slimy black things
and slurped it up. Sikes caught the morsel's scent and couldn't stop a slight
grimace from flickering across one eyebrow and the side of his nose. It
smelled like rotting banana peel fermented in sour milk.

He took a step back and let the alien eat.

Eventually, Hkzzvk sighed and put the bowl down. He picked up a few of the
uneaten leaves and twisted them together into what was unmistakably a kind of
joint or cigarette, which he lit with a small circular lighter stored in a
pouch on his arm.

"…I didn't know folks out here smoke." Sikes commented. Hkzzvk gave a
complicated toss of his head that went untranslated, and flicked one of his
ears.

The burning leaf smelled quite good, actually - sweeter and warmer than a
cigarette. It reminded Sikes of fishing with his late great-uncle, who never
went to the lake without his pipe and two Budweisers, and a couple of A&amp;Ws
for Calvin. Sadly, the old man had passed away before they'd been able to
share a Bud together, but the smell coming from Hkzzvk's impromptu roll-up was
making Calvin suddenly thirsty for a root beer.

To his surprise, Hkzzvk finished his smoke by the simple expedient of eating
the smouldering stub, grinding the embers out between his teeth. He shook
himself, sending a wave of loose short-coated skin rippling down from the top
of his long neck to the base of his tail, and sighed.

"Better?" Sikes asked him.

"Much better… Thank you."

"Dude, like I said. We were just worried for ya." He wasn't sure what to read
in Hkzzvk's body language - for all he knew the Vzk'tk engineer might be
mistrustful, wary, grateful or optimistic. He stood aside and indicated the
open door. "You want the room, it's yours, we won't intrude, but please don't
starve yourself in there."

Hkzzvk didn't reply at first, but - still wary - he carefully retreated to the
door to his room.

"You promise?" he asked.

"On my honor." Sikes raised one hand solemnly to his chest and the other to
ear level. For all Bedu's dismissal of Hkzzvk's intelligence, he counted on
the jittery Vzk'tk to at least be able to interpret the gesture by context.

It apparently worked. Hkzzvk cautiously imitated him, then retreated into his
room and closed the door.

"Nicely done." Titan commented, sitting up again.

"It's a start." Sikes agreed. He grabbed an MRE and sat down to prepare it.
Watching Hkzzvk eat had reminded him not only of his own appetite, but of the
fact that he was burning through plenty of calories just by wearing the suit.
"Aww, _man_. Jambalaya." he complained. Somewhere along the line, they'd
started playing a game where they had to eat whatever they grabbed, rather
than saving the ones they didn't want for last. Nobody was quite sure what the
consequence would be for giving in, but none of them was willing to lose.
"Real jambalaya should be fuckin' spicy man, not this weak-ass shit. The
Tabasco doesn't save it."

Fortunately, there was a loophole. "Trade ya for a sausage and gravy." Akiyama
offered, brandishing the one he'd just grabbed.

"Deal."

"Always knew you had a talent for diplomacy." Titan observed, once the meals
had been traded and were heating. "No _way_ you score that much pussy on your
looks alone."

Sikes snorted. "Blue fur and six limbs or not, he's just a scared dude who got
caught up in somethin' bigger than him." he said. "Useful knowing they smoke
that stuff though. That's good stuff. I can use that."

"Y'know it didn't even occur to me that maybe SOR needs a man with some
talking skills." Titan mused. "We've got so big and ass-kicky, kinda seems
like a silver tongue's gonna be low on the list, right?"

Sikes nodded, stirring his juice, but said nothing.

"Remember Ukraine? Operation SWORN BEACON? That shit woulda gone _south_ if
not for Booker." Titan continued. "Maybe it's something to raise with
STAINLESS."

"Maybe," Sikes agreed. "Hell, we're pretty fuckin' high-profile too. You saw
the whole _Beef Brothers_ thing, right?"

Titan laughed. "Yeah, and _man_ I bet Base is sore over that shit. You hear
about the poll result?"

"No…?"

"It went _'Left Beef Best Beef, or Right Beef Superior Slab?'_" Titan
chuckled. "'Horse took it three to one, man. Kicked Baseball's _ass."_

Sikes laughed. "Ah, poor Base… Feels weird bein' part of a unit with that kind
of media profile though, don't it?"

"Very different to Delta." Titan agreed. "Could be we're all gonna need that
silver tongue."

He pulled his Jambalaya out of the heat and dug in. "Hell, could be the
ultimate survival skill for mankind ain't gonna be the muscles and stuff, it's
gonna be talking panicky ETs round to our side."

"Bro, if that's true, I'll fuckin' take it." Sikes toasted the idea with his
juice. "But I'm kinda thinkin' it won't be."

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds.**

**_Eleven_**

"You're human!"

"Coo you, seen what straight in front o' I." Dread was… smiling? Eleven had to
dig into the Hierarchy database to reference human facial expressions, and
decided that what she was seeing wasn't a smile at all, but was instead tagged
with the term _'rictus'_. It was not, apparently, a friendly expression.

It certainly didn't look like one. Quite aside from that hateful glare, she
could see sharp slicing teeth and four pointed grabbing ones, and her host
body's instincts were sending urgent messages to the effect that she should
tremble.

Humiliating as it was, breaking character was not acceptable, so Eleven
allowed Mwrmwrwk's body to tremble, and even cower a bit and back away.

"But… you're… supposed to be Chehnasho."

"I an' I don' wan' _Babylon_ come callin', sight?"

Either the translator had made a complete hash of his language, or else he was
speaking pure nonsense."…What?"

Dread's expression got even angrier somehow, and he spoke clearly and slowly,
as if enunciating for an idiot. "If they-" he waved a hand at the planet in
general "Find out a human is here, then they either kill me, or Hunters will
come."

"Then why-?"

"You out me, you die. Seen?"

His tone was completely unmalicious, meaning that his words weren't so much a
threat as an alert of future danger to be avoided, like a warning sign on a
crumbling cliff edge.

Eleven was _not_ going to be bullied by a deathworld primitive. In any case,
deathworlders outside the quarantine field were not to be permitted - a rule
she could have bent or broken if she wanted… but she didn't want to.

Internally, she sent a priority alert to planetary security. Externally, she
squeaked a terrified "…Understood."

"Why I chasing _Sanctuary?"_ Dread asked.

"That was the job!" Eleven told him. "The client wanted Krrkktnkk
A'ktnnzzik'tk found. When we found him, we came straight back here." Dread
didn't need to know that the client in question had been the Hierarchy.

"And he taken over this station?"

"Yes!"

"Were there humans wid'im?"

"I don't know. We chased the wrong escape pod first. That one had three humans
in it, a male and two females."

His hand shot out so fast that even at Eleven's accelerated processing speeds,
Mwrwmwrk's reflexes and sensory acuity weren't adequate to the task of seeing
it happen. In an eyeblink, he was holding her firmly by one of her belts. The
fabric creaked as he hauled her closer, so close that the scent of him filled
her nose. He even _smelled_ angry.

"Where? When?!"

"Deep space!" Eleven answered. "Their pod was heading for the spacelane
between the Allied Vgork Kingdoms and Domain space, not far from Freeport
Eighty-Seven. That was… about [two months] ago. They would definitely have
reached the lanes by now, and been detected."

"Then what?"

"That depends who found them. Most ships wouldn't knowingly take a human on
board, and they were in no condition to fight. Their… the pod's medical
scanner was reporting that all three were badly hurt."

The news seemed to enrage and disgust him. He let go of her harness and spun
away. He took a deep breath and let it out with a frustrated vocalization
before turning back and facing her.

"What. Does. That. Mean?" He asked, firmly.

"It means… most shipmasters would have just left them. Gaoians probably
wouldn't, but that's a long way from Gaoian space, and if the Hunters found
them first…"

She trailed off: his glare was only getting worse.

"…It means that they're most likely either dead or still out there," she
summarized.

Dread's nostrils flared and the line of hair above his right eye creased
downward. She thought he was about to snap something, but instead he exhaled
while making a coarse noise in the back of his mouth and changed the subject.

"Why's that station so important?"

"It has a fully sized industrial nanofactory." Eleven told him. "And
A'ktnnzzik'tk is an ally of your species, which means he's probably planning
to use it for your benefit."

"So?"

"So that is… very illegal. For several reasons."

"So?"

"Oh, you should care." Eleven told him. "Your species is only just in their
post-contact stage, your economy couldn't possibly absorb the introduction of
even _one_ functioning Kwmbwrw nanofactory. It would be catastrophic for you.
Your entire manufacturing sector would become obsolete too quickly for your
economy to adjust. Millions would be redundant, unemployed, starving."

"…That bad?"

"It happened before. Have you ever met a Newex?"

He shook his head, a gesture she took for a reply in the negative.

"They're a reclusive species with a tiny population, and they don't leave
their homeworld much if at all. About [two hundred years] ago they got their
hands on nanofactory technology before they were ready, and it resulted in
global economic collapse, which in turn led to mass starvation, plagues,
rioting and internecine warfare. Even with all this time to recover, their
population is still less than half what it was before the crisis."

For the first time, he betrayed an emotion other than simmering rage. He put a
hand on his jaw and rubbed thoughtfully, then ran that hand over the thick,
matted ropes of hair that ran down his back. He turned away, paced
thoughtfully, then took out his communicator.

"Not done wid I, yet." He snarled. "Stay right there."

Eleven watched the data traffic and had to suppress her emotional connection
to her host or else she would have indicated triumph as she realised he first
researched the Newexian crisis to verify what she had told him, and then
immediately called his client, Shipmaster Mefr, host to Fifty-Three. He spoke
slowly and carefully, disguising the unique cadences and idioms of what was
clearly his native and preferred mode of speech, and reported _everything_,
especially the nanofactory.

With plausible deniability for the information reaching the fleetmaster now
established, Eleven's work on Perfection was now done. There was only the
matter of a rogue human to clean up.

Fortunately, that problem was about to solve itself.

"Right." Dread pocketed his communicator. "Now. Sanctuary. I wan' know
_everyt'ing…"_

He trailed off, cocking his head at some sound that Eleven hadn't detected. He
gave her a suspicious glare, and then stepped twice to his side. In the quiet
of the store-room, Eleven finally heard some kind of metallic, springy sort of
sound that punctuated each of his footsteps.

Two cops burst into the room with their stun weaponry drawn and ready, and all
hell broke loose

Irbzrkian electrical discharge weaponry had earned a large market share over
the years. While they lacked the range, accuracy and rate of fire of kinetic
pulse weaponry, the more than made up for those deficiencies in effectiveness.
Irbzrk stun guns had been credited not only with subduing human fugitives, but
also in fighting back against Hunter parties that had come looking for those
humans. Dread didn't stand a chance.

Not that mere insurmountable odds were likely to give any self-respecting
deathworlder pause for thought.

The police - two Vzk'tk - needed a moment to realise that Dread was not in the
middle of the room but lurking beside the door, and then it was already too
late. Eleven wasn't sure what she had been expecting from him, but the human
seemed to have absolutely no compunctions about violence. The first officer
through the door didn't even have time to order him to surrender before Dread
lashed out with enough force to pulp the poor creature's forearm. It
collapsed, shrieking like some kind of malfunctioning industrial machine and
cradling its ruined limb.

The second fared no better. It tried to shoot at Dread, but the human flung
himself to the ground, then used the interval as the cop's gun was recharging
its capacitors to shoot again to launch himself forwards. He crashed into the
Vzk'tk officer's legs and broke three of them - the officer crashed to the
ground, screaming.

Eleven ran.

She flinched as a stun-gun shot that would have fried her host outright missed
by a hand's width the second she burst through the door. There were five more
security officers in the alleyway, who beckoned urgently for her to get out of
the way, and aimed at the door again.

What came through it wasn't Dread, but the billow of black cloth was
convincing enough for all of them to fire at once. Dread had removed his robes
and thrown them out of the door in front of him. The garment ignited and fell
to the ground burning, but Dread was right behind it and pounced _over_ the
flaming cloth.

Eleven had just enough time to solve the mystery of his too-long, Chehnasho-
like legs. Under his robes, Dread was wearing a pair of shorts, a few holsters
and harnesses, and a pair of boots with some kind of cantilevered assemblage
of springs and metal that elongated his stride, made him taller and created
the appearance of having digitigrade feet.

They also, it seemed, gave him a mechanical advantage. Eleven had the data on
how agile humans were in standard gravity, but Dread's leap was enormous even
by their standards, and when he landed he did so by crashing shoulder-first
into the middle officer.

The unfortunate being went sprawling, grievously wounded if not fatally so,
and the other four found themselves within arm's reach of a deathworlder in a
fighting rage.

Eleven was pretty sure he killed two of them outright. Dread's right hand was
a knobbled club of gravity-forged dense bone and flesh, and it lashed out
faster than the eye could follow. One of the officers staggered back and fell
with his head lolling unnaturally, and another collapsed with a visible dent
mid-forehead that didn't look remotely survivable. When Dread grabbed the
third and levered her into the fourth, he did so with enough force to almost
tear her arm off, and left both of the officers creaking their agony in a
disjointed pile of broken limbs on the deck.

Oh well. In his rage, the human had now undoubtedly sparked a city-wide hunt
for himself that would inevitably lead to his capture. Eleven's work was done.

She turned and sprinted away, preemptively shutting down the pain signals from
her borrowed body.

Sure enough, he caught her. With those spring-boots on his feet, he could take
huge bouncing strides in low gravity, and Eleven was smashed to the deck in
only five paces. In an abstract way, she sensed three of Mwrmwrwk's legs
break, an injury that once upon a time would have been slowly and agonisingly
fatal, and which the very best of modern Kwmbwrw medicine still treated by
preference with amputation and prosthesis.

She was roughly shoved over, and was now nose-to-nose with a violently enraged
human. "Blood clot fi I call Babylon, huh?" He snarled, incomprehensibly.

Eleven followed the script provided by Mwrmwrwk's latent personality image.
"Not me! Somebody must have seen-"

"Shut up! I got t'ree eye. Wan' live wid two?"

He tugged a knife - not a fusion blade, just an ordinary bit of sharp metal,
not that it would really matter to Mwrmwrwk's flesh, not with deathworld
strength behind it - from his belt and aimed it levelly at Eleven's middle
eye.

Oh dear. Eleven didn't really want to have to endure that fate, and she sensed
that now she could plausibly pass off her departure as Mwrmwrwk having died of
sheer fright.

She ejected from her host, and triggered the kill subroutines in the implants
as she evacuated them.

Crushed and already dying beneath Dread's anger, the body of the already-late
Mwrwmwrk spasmed, frothed at the mouth, and finally died.

Eleven reconnected to the first host that presented itself - a nearby
Guvnuragnaguvendrugun who was being held back by the security cordon, and
checked the feed from the kreewit biodrone.

She watched Dread take out his rage on the corpse of her late host,
dismembering it in a few moments of pure animal violence. Then, snarling, he
stood, looked around him, and took off at a run.

Eleven sent the kreewit to follow, but it immediately became apparent that
Dread was far too fast for the little urban creature to keep up. She lost
sight of him as he leaned into the turn round a sharp corner far ahead, and by
the time her biodrone had reached that corner itself, he was gone.

Police vehicles thrummed overhead with their lights and sirens going full
blast, and she reassured herself that his capture was only a matter of time.

She fed the Guvnurag host a false memory of becoming lost in thought, and
dismounted gently. Her brief occupation would be overlooked as a moment of
distraction: far better for creating less attention than to have the giant
creature suddenly keel over dead in the crowd.

Satisfied, she slipped away onto the Hierarchy network, and began to compose
her mission report.

It had, she considered, gone perfectly.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

Caruthers confessed to being a Star Trek fan, but something that had always
struck him as amusing and odd about that franchise was just how much personal
space all the characters enjoyed aboard their ships. Ensigns and Lieutenants
were blessed with decent-sized apartments, usually with luxurious double beds
and enough room to invite friends over for poker.

In reality, one of the great perks of being a senior officer was that you got
a small cabin to yourself that was just about large enough to contain a bed, a
sink and a desk. Caruthers' was about half the size of Captain Picard's ready
room, let alone the opulent quarters in which that fictional officer had
luxuriated. Meanwhile there were junior officers on _Violent_ and elsewhere in
the fleet who were sharing bunks.

That was the nature of life in the navy, and if the officers were sharing
bunks then the ratings had an even more cramped and intimate time of it.
Indeed, the cots and camp beds that the SOR techs kept in _Caledonia_'s
starboard bay were widely reckoned to be the most luxurious sleeping
arrangement in the fleet, and were thus the source of some mildly envious
friction.

The cabin was important, though: it allowed him to sleep, and sleep he did at
every opportunity. It might have been nice to unwind with a book first or
something, but each time he had a chance to get his head down, he knew it was
only going to be a handful of hours at most before his attention was once more
required.

Answering phone calls was almost a reflex now. His hand was moving before he
was fully awake.

"Ngh… Caruthers."

_"Call from the FIC, sir."_

"Put it through."

The FIC was the Fleet Intelligence Center, housed on HMS _Myrmidon_, a team of
dedicated and highly educated specialists whose job revolved around tending to
the Watson systems and all those valuable FLOPS. Their efforts had broken the
alien encryption in short order, and they were now busily reading ET's mail.
Thanks to them, Caruthers knew what his nonhuman counterpart's orders were
usually before they'd even finished reaching every officer in the alien fleet.

There was a delay of a second or two as the line was transferred, which he
spent levering himself upright and massaging his face for clarity. "Chief.
What news?"

_"An interesting transmission from the planet to the fleet, sir. It looks like
the SOR element were only partially successful - one of November Charlie's
crew evaded capture. It looks like she was tracked down and told them about
Kirk and Mwrwrki station. Now there's messages flying all over the ET fleet
about Article Twelve of the Charter."_

Caruthers stood. "Damn!"

_"Yes sir. If they decide to attack Caledonia, they'll be doing it in about
half an hour, assuming they stick to their plan of using their orbiting
element as cover."_

"Thank you. Spread that intel."

Well aware that he was a bit rumpled and unwashed from several solid days of
being at work and snatching power-naps in between with only the odd meal at
his desk, Caruthers would have preferred to grab a quick shower and a change
of clothes, and he would have if there had been more than a half an hour in
which to do so.

As it was… well, he was far from the only one. The standoff and constant state
of readiness was probably keeping everybody in the fleet in similar condition.

Junior ranks got respectfully out of his way as he swarmed up the stairs to A
deck and the bridge, where _Violent_'s CO, Commander Vaughan, was in the
middle of taking the call from the Fleet Intel Center.

Caruthers double-checked the volume chart, double-checking that everything was
still where it should be.

Vaughan put his phone down. "Well, that's inconvenient," he noted. "Shall we
put a call in to your opposite number, sir?

"Best not." Caruthers decided. "It won't help us if we give away that we can
listen to their communications."

"If they decide to hit _Caledonia_ now…"

"I think I've been more than patient enough with the _'Fleetmaster'_."
Caruthers declared. He turned to the communications officer "Get me a line to
all the captains."

"Aye aye sir."

It didn't take long. The FIC had the art of rapidly disseminating vital
information down pat - every commander they had was ready to receive orders.
Bathini was on the line too, looking most exhausted of all but still dignified
and fierce.

"Channel open, sir."

Caruthers nodded his thanks, then addressed the camera on Vaughan's console.
"Gentlemen. I don't plan on waiting half an hour to see _if_ they attack,
because if they do there won't be a damn thing we can do to stop them from
destroying _Caledonia,"_ he announced, without preamble. "We're going to
strike now. _Violent, Viceroy_ and _Myrmidon_ will remain here with half the
bulldogs. The rest of you will jump to beacon around that moon. We're going to
blind them, nothing more. EWAR and gravity spikes only until I say otherwise.
Captain Daniels, you have seniority for the strike group. Just as we planned.
Any questions?"

_"What about that Gaoian ship?"_ Captain Ruckley asked. Ruckley was the CO of
HMS _Valiant_ and one of the most vocally pro-alliance.

"They're to be spared unless they attack." Caruthers, letting his tone of
voice carry the implicit order that there would be no flinching if it came to
blows. "We've entertained the possibility of contacting them and coming to
some arrangement, but that's not practical right now. Hopefully their captain
is smart enough to keep his claws in. Anybody else?"

"What happens if they do succeed in attacking _Caledonia_?" Vaughan asked.

"Then we nuke all the heavy pickets." Caruthers replied. "Including the
flagship. If this goes tits-up then I at least want the galaxy to know for
certain that we're no soft touch when it's killing time… Still. Bathini, have
your crew ready to abandon ship."

_"Aye aye sir."_

"Anyone else?"

There was a round of general confirmation that they all understood their
roles.

"Good hunting."

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Planet Perfection, The Core Worlds.**

**_Zane_**

Zane had hit on the idea of using jumping stilts early on in his career as an
infobroker. At first he'd considered duplicating Xiu's Gaoian disguise, but
had quickly given up on that idea. Quite aside from not speaking a lick of
Gaori, his proportions were plainly and obviously wrong. He was far too tall,
and too much of that height was legs.

Besides, Chehnasho had the more sinister reputation. Given that all he needed
was an extra twelve inches or so in the leg to make himself roughly the right
proportions, the rest had been first engineering and then adapting to the damn
things. He'd fallen over a fair few times as he got used to them. Over the
three years he'd spent on Perfection, he'd grown so used to his boots that
taking them off in the seclusion of his safehouse had started to feel wrong…
But they'd saved his life today.

He called The Contact.

"I want out." He told her, the instant she answered his call.

_"I was about to cut you loose anyway. Your usual flare for subtlety seems to
have abandoned you."_ the Corti replied. _"I assume you will be leaving us?
Making use of that ship you have stored away, hmm?"_

The little noodly grey bitch had always been far too sharp for Zane's tastes.
It might have been her influence that saw him rescued from Aru, but that
didn't mean he had to _like_ her. Especially not when she so thoroughly
punctured his illusions that he'd been able to keep the _Creation Stepper_ a
secret.

"I'm not stupid enough to stay here." He shot back.

_"Stupid enough to out yourself and kill three police officers. What were you_
**_thinking?"_**

"Don't give I the evil eye." Zane told her. "Bein' caught was a when, not a
if."

_"Was it really necessary to kill them?"_

"Hard to not." Zane retorted. "An' it kill or be killed yah know."

"Oh yes, I know. They'll kill you if they catch you, undoubtedly. They aren't
necessarily wrong, either. If the Hunters get wind of your presence…"

Zane's normally limited and currently negligible patience ran out. "I an' I
done talkin'?" He snapped, "Or am I gon' have to listen until the end of
Eart'?"

"…I have cleared your debt. You're free to go, Dread. A pity, you have been a
rare and valuable asset. I wish you all the best."

"Ya. I'd wish I good luck, but I doesn't need it, nuh true?" Zane didn't often
compliment anybody, but then again he didn't like very many people. The
Contact was a rare exception - she'd always treated him with respect and
fairness.

"True. Farewell, Dread."

"Yeah, yeah. Live long an' prosper, an' t'ing."

He ended the call.

Inventory check - he had his clothing, his jumping stilts, several hundred
thousand dominion currency credits spread across five different fake
identities, and a small spaceship rigged for going from point A to point B as
quickly as possible.

He also had _being human._ Awkward as it might be to have to constantly
disguise that fact, being able to out-think everything in the galaxy, out-run
them, or if need be tear them limb-from-limb was not a blessing to be sneered
at.

He'd be fine.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

"The orbital element will be in position in two hundred _Ri'_, fleetmaster."

"Good. Remember, the human retaliation will be immediate. Every ship is to
warp to safety _instantly_ upon the target's destruction."

Xkk' took a last look at the fleet disposition and satisfied himself that the
deathworlders were about to get a nasty shock. Considering just how much death
and mayhem they had caused in their short time on the interstellar stage, he
didn't feel even the slightest twinge of-

More than half of the human fleet vanished. All they left on the field were
three of their larger ships, twelve of the small probably-drones, and the
damaged-

The tactical display made an alarmed noise and its happy blue abruptly turned
green. Warning icons indicated a sudden and total shutdown in the available
sensor telemetry from his own ship.

Before he could give any order, it went yellow, indicating that it was
nonfunctional. The _Utopian Aspiration_ was no longer receiving _any_ sensor
telemetry. His view of the human fleet and of the battlespace dissolved into
useless fuzz.

Every officer he could see started prodding and swiping uselessly at their
work stations, attempting to salvage the situation.

"What. Just. Happened?!" he demanded, raising his voice to cut through the
sudden hubbub.

"Comms are down, sensors are down, station-keeping is down, navigation is
down!"

"Superluminal comms?" Xkk' called.

"Active, but… Fleetmaster, every ship is reporting identical failures."

Xkk' rounded on the tactical technicians. "Sensors!"

"The diagnostic says they've… burned out, fleetmaster." The technician give
him a wide-eyed, quite panicked look. "All of them at once. They… it seems the
humans hit them with extremely high-energy beams of radiation in their most
sensitive bands, exceeding their-"

"They shot us?" Xkk' snapped.

"Yes, Fleetmaster."

Xkk' turned to Mefr. "They shot us! Those… cowardly, honorless, treacherous
_dirt-chewers_ shot us!"

"They beat us to it." Mefr observed.

Xkk' ground his teeth and seriously considered removing the Corti from her
post, but she had not in fact been overtly insubordinate. Instead he reined in
his temper. "The other elements?" he asked.

The tactical officer swiped desperately through his volumetric display
elements. "Third group report identical system failures," he called. "Second
group are still at warp, they're unscathed and request orders."

Xkk's hand stabbed into his command display and selected the only icon that
had a known position and condition - HMS _Caledonia_.

"Destroy. That. Ship." he snarled.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers._**

"Their FTL element is coming about."

"_Myrmidon_ to predict their in-vector and spike it. _Valiant_ to warp four of
their bulldogs to Caledonia and seed white noise. Mister Morgan, put our
bulldogs among those spikes."

"Aye aye!"

The Watson systems and the decade of GUI research and development that had
begun the moment people got their heads round the idea that interstellar
flight - and conflict - were likely to feature in humanity's near future were
proving their worth yet again. The Royal Navy prided itself on its traditions
and on not fixing what wasn't broken, but there _was_ no command tradition or
ship's controls that were built to handle engagements across distances so vast
that the speed of light itself was inconveniently too slow.

The system had therefore been purpose-built, and it worked beautifully. The
computers listened, interpreted, shared, transmitted, prepared. All a human
needed to do was confirm their analysis and not only did Caruthers' orders
immediately reach their intended recipients, but the computers on those ships
had already prepared firing solutions and plotted accelerations.

They also kept Caruthers appraised of the progress of his commands. He had
ordered for Myrmidon to fire gravity spikes and so now as each step in the
process of reloading and firing that specialist ammunition filtered through
_Myrmidon_'s own chain of command, Caruthers could watch it. The order was
received, acknowledged, carried out. There was an agonising wait of some few
seconds as her gun crews swapped ammo feeds.

No sooner was that step completed than Myrmidon fired. On the commodore's
screen, overlapping red bubbles filled the predicted incoming fleet's approach
vector, saturating several thousand cubic kilometers with no-warp zones.
Caruthers watched the icon representing that fleet hawkishly, expecting them
to detect the impediment in their way and abort their approach in favor of a
different angle.

They didn't, which was excellent evidence for their EWAR assault on the alien
command element having completely blinded them.

The bulldogs synchronized with the control systems aboard _Myrmidon_ and
pulse-warped into the midst of that field of gravity spikes. By _far_ the
slowest step had been reloading the guns, and the result was that when, two
minutes later, the last undamaged elements of the alien fleet arrived, rather
than pouncing on a helpless target and annihilating it, they were instead
brought crashing back down to sublight speeds, and before they could get their
bearings, they were pounced _upon_, and rendered helpless.

Caruthers watched with a grim expression as the last alien ship lost attitude
control and came adrift.

"…Hail the fleetmaster." he ordered.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fleetmaster Xkk'rtnnk A'vkrnkt'k_**

"Fleetmaster? The human wishes to talk."

"Wishes to gloat." Xkk' grumbled. He stood, and shook out his mane. "Very
well. Relay this conversation to the fleet and the system. I want them to
_see_ what kind of monsters these deathworlders are."

"Yes, fleetmaster… On screen."

Xkk' scrutinized his foe as the human's visage appeared on the large screen.
Was grey hair a sign of age in humans? They all looked so lumpen and solid
that it was hard to guess whether this _Caruthers_ was slender or stocky by
his species' standards. The human seemed to have sprouted a rough blueness of
hair stubble along his jaw and around his mouth since Xkk' had last spoken
with him, and the skin under his eyes was darker. An emote of some kind, or
just a symptom of stress and fatigue?

"What do you want?" Xkk' demanded.

"My apologies for striking first. I suppose I lost my nerve." the human
replied. "I have left you with…" he checked something outside of the camera's
field of view. "Yes, with _one_ ship that has full sensors. Be sensible and
use it to guide the others to anchor."

"Toying with us still, predator?" Xkk' sneered. He checked the status of every
ship in his fleet, and immediately found the only blue icon - the _Racing
Thunder_. Of _course_: the Gaoians. The furry traitors must have been feeding
intelligence to the humans, it was the only way that Caruthers could have
known to attack first.

"If you're awaiting the _coup de grace_, fleetmaster, I won't be delivering
one," Caruthers replied. "We're not your enemy. It's unfortunate that we came
to blows over this, but we have gone out of our way to avoid casualties. I
would hope that gesture counts in our favour."

"You have _made_ an enemy." Xkk' spat. "And your Gaoian conspirators will be
put on trial for their treason."

"Now that, I can't allow." Caruther said. "Their ship is intact because the
clans of Gao have been welcoming and civilized toward our people, which is a
kindness I won't betray. They're innocent of any treason."

"I see through your lie!" Xkk' snapped. "They're your agents, and I'll have
them shaved and executed for their treachery!" Around the bridge, several
subordinates stared at him in alarm.

Caruthers' expression hardened. "…A word of advice, fleetmaster, from
commander to commander: Give the victories to your men and take the defeats
for yourself."

He glanced aside, listening to something that Xkk' couldn't hear, then smiled
and made no effort to cover his teeth - several of Xkk's officers flinched.
"…And don't threaten the one crew in your fleet whose ship can still go to
warp," he added.

Xkk' rounded on the comms officer, who sent him a text update: the _Racing
Thunder_ had indeed disconnected from the tactical network and had shot out of
the system at a hundred kilolights, headed directly for Gao.

"We are blinded and adrift thanks to you," he shot at the human. "Article
Three-"

"Requires me to leave you adequate means to return to harbor, yes." Caruthers
interrupted. "I **_did._** We'll repair our ship now, and depart - how you get
home is no longer my problem. Goodbye."

The transmission ended.

Xkk' was still standing in the middle of the bridge stamping his hind legs
angrily - a gesture of frustrated rage entirely analogous to a human pacing
and clenching their fists - when the comms officer found the courage to speak.

"A… message for you from Planetary Director Luz, fleetmaster." he ventured,
quietly.

Xkk' glanced around the bridge. Nobody met his eye.

Without a word, he turned towards the wardroom and went to take the call that
would end his career.

**Date Point 10y4m1w5d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

"I get the impression you enjoyed that, sir."

Caruthers sat back, removed his hat and ran a hand through his hair before
tugging it neatly back into place. The full weight of several days of
inadequate sleep was now resting on him, and he really wasn't in the mood for
gloating.

"The Gaoians?" he asked.

"Departing at best speed, with thanks."

"Acknowledge their thanks and inform them that they may seek refuge at
Cimbrean if they need it." Caruthers instructed.

"Aye aye, sir."

Caruthers opened a channel to _Caledonia_. When he answered it, captain
Bathini was back under his flash hood again. "You can relax, captain."
Caruthers told him. "Our ET opposite numbers are neutralized, for now."

_"That's fantastic news, sir."_ Bathini nodded. "My reactor chief says we
should be able to fire up main power in twelve hours."

Caruthers tutted. "Nearly got out of this without a fight." he mused. "Oh
well. That's still well ahead of the estimate."

_"Chief Andow believes in giving pessimistic estimates."_ Bathini replied.

Caruthers chuckled, tiredly. "Good for him. I'll hear from you in eight hours,
then, shall I?"

Bathini laughed with him. _"I believe you will sir, yes."_

Caruthers gave him a thumbs-up and closed the call.

He was rubbing at his forehead and composing his log when the most welcome
scent in the universe wafted across his workstation, and a voice asked:
"Coffee, sir?"

Caruthers gave the Midshipman who was offering him the mug - black, sugary and
double strong, exactly as he liked it - the grateful smile that only a half-
dead man being given coffee could produce and accepted it. "Very much
appreciated, thank you mister Faulkner."

He sipped half of it while he recorded his log entries, then finished by
swigging the remainder. A quick survey and check-in with the fleet satisfied
him that they could step down enough for him to grab another power-nap.

Somewhere in the future beyond that, however, was the siren promise of a full
night's sleep and right now, that sounded positively decadent… but there were
at least another eight hours of hard work and stress before then.

He stood, left the flotilla in the capable hands of Captain Manning, and
returned to his cabin.

**Date Point 10y4m1w6d AV**  
**Heavy System Picket** **_Utopian Aspiration,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds.**

**_Fifty-Three_**

The bridge had been a subdued hubbub ever since the fleetmaster had trudged
off it as if walking to his own execution. Fifty-three had taken the
opportunity to restore some order and had demanded a compilation of every
sensor log they had of the human attack.

The data was depressingly sparse. Strobing beams of EM radiation, each
perfectly tuned to their sensors' points of most sensitivity, had lashed their
fleet, with each of the human ships generating _thousands_ of such beams. All
of the sensors had been overwhelmed and blinded, orders of magnitude too
quickly for the reaction times of any organic life-form.

Fifty-Three had little more to go on than the precise time that each ship's
sensors had burned out. It really wasn't much, and certainly exceeded her
ability to think of countermeasures.

No matter. The Hierarchy was only the front line of Igraen defence, and Fifty-
Three predicted that even these meagre crumbs of data would admit of something
that could be used. The humans would not hold their advantage for long.

The bridge went quiet. Fleetmaster Xkk' had emerged from the wardroom, looking
old, frail and devastated.

"Shipmaster Mefr." he announced, quietly. His voice was barely more than a
croak, but the silence carried it clearly to every ear in the room. "By the
order of Perfection Planetary Governor Luz, it is my final duty as master of
this fleet to appoint you as my replacement. All command codes and privileges
are now transferred to you. The security of this system and its people is now
your responsibility and duty, if you accept it."

Fifty-three straightened. This was not ideal - Hierarchy doctrine called for
their agents to remain in well-placed subordinate positions rather than in
command. Unfortunately she was not able to refuse, and Mefr was too valuable a
host to sacrifice on doctrine.

"…I accept that responsibility, and relieve you of it," she declared, formally
and carefully. There was a cascade of alerts and updates in her implants as
the command codes were transferred.

"All ships are to prioritize repair of their navigational sensors." she said.
"We only need one to get us home."

The order was acknowledged and followed, while a pair of Vzk'tk marines led
the former fleetmaster off the bridge.

"If one of the ships repairs their targeting sensors, shall we destroy the
human ship?" one of the crew asked.

Fifty-Three considered the options, weighing her responsibilities to the
Hierarchy's secrecy, to its mission and to the options appropriate for
completing that mission.

"…No." she declared. Out loud, she gave a convincing reason that would do for
the meatspace lifeforms. "Their retaliation would not be so restrained as they
have been so far, and I have no doubt the Hunters would relish the opportunity
to raid this system with the defence fleet weakened."

Internally the logic was more complicatedly political. This incident would
certainly have cost the humans much of the goodwill they'd earned at Capitol
Station, but to _really_ twist the knife…

**++0053++:** **&lt;Message for 0020&gt;** _I have a request._

As for the humans, even if they _did_ have a nanofactory now, that would
almost certainly work out in the Hierarchy's favor. Every previous occasion
where a species got their hands on that technology prematurely had resulted in
massive recession and strife.

Given that the Hierarchy's analysis was that most of the so-called "Allied"
nations were already accumulating immense debt as they pumped finances into
developing their fledgling spaceborne military and the Cimbrean colonization
effort, the Hierarchy would be quite happy to sit back and let another mass of
stress land on the human economy.

She settled in the fleetmaster's chair moments before the reply reached her.

**++0020++:** _A request?_

Twenty was their infiltrator among the Hunters, posing as a lowly Omega
communications monitor. It was a perfect position - overlooked, unsuspected,
and able to feed whatever morsels of intelligence the Hierarchy wanted
directly to the Alphas who made the real decisions.

The rest was down to Hunter psychology, such as it was.

**++0053++:** _Perfection is currently without a system defence fleet… thanks to the humans._

**++0020++:** _Destroyed?_

**++0053++:** _Better. Intact but crippled. Lots of meat for the maw._

**++0020++:** _Please don't use that hideous phrase, I receive it dozens of times a day as it is._

**++0053++:** _Apologies. Can you arrange a Hunt?_

**++0020++:** _Easily, and I shall. …Done._

Fifty-Three carefully kept her satisfaction from showing. She was
simultaneously about to finally demolish the Dominion's goodwill towards
deathworlders, and resolve the problem of her own unwelcome rank. It would be
trivially simple to arrange for her host to meet an untimely end between a
Hunter's teeth.

**++0053++:** _That simple?_

**++0020++:** _The Alpha-of-Alphas has been looking for an opportunity to deploy some reverse-engineered human technology. Trust me, the attack will come very soon indeed. Good work._

**++0053++:** _Thank you._

Twenty did not acknowledge the thanks, not that Fifty-three was inclined to
care.

She could _smell_ the promotion in her near future.

**Date Point: 10y4m1w6d AV**  
**HMS** **_Caledonia,_** **Perfection System, The Core Worlds**

**_Chief Michael Andow_**

"Okay… Final checklist. Combustion chamber pressure?"

"Ten to the minus seven milliBar, chief." Patel reported.

"Emergency breakers?"

Evans double-checked them. "Engaged, chief."

"Ignition lasers?"

"Charged, chief."

"Deuterium?"

"Pump primed, chief, Two thousand kilograms in the tank."

"ESCC field?"

"Online, chief."

"Sphincters?"

There was a round of laughter. Evans spoke up. "Clenched, chief."

Andow flashed a one-sided grin at the younger man and called the bridge.
"Captain," he said, "reactor room. We're ready for ignition, sir."

_"Excellent news. Wake her up, chief."_

"Aye aye, sir."

Andow patted _Cally_'s hull affectionately. "Alright girl. Let's get you home,
eh?"

"Amen." somebody muttered

"Alright hooky," Andow gestured to Patel, "do the honours."

She nodded, took a deep breath, popped the cover on the fusion reactor's main
ignition, and thumbed the huge red button thus revealed.

It made an alarming slamming sound. Nobody flinched - it was exactly what
they'd hoped to hear.

"Stage one ignition complete and burning, increasing deuterium flow… Stable."

"Reaction temperature steady at eleven million kelvin."

"…That's our girl." Andow grinned. The generator array was reporting nothing
but green across the board as the forcefields deep within it simultaneously
compressed, contained and enabled the fusion reaction, and bled off the
surplus energy for electricity.

It wasn't quite perfect - Andow had cut his teeth on gas turbine engines and
supercritical water generators. He missed hearing the muffled howl of a
turbine, next to which the fusion plants were disappointingly quiet. There
_was_ a steady low hum, almost inaudibly faint, but it just wasn't the same.
It didn't _sound_ like a gigawatt.

He grabbed the shipwide intercom. "All hands prepare for a change in gravity."
he announced, and hooted the alarm for good measure. He turned to Evans. "Slow
adjust to one G."

"Aye aye, chief."

The sensation of gravity weighing down on them picked up. They'd become so
used to one-quarter gravity over the last few days that it took a second or
two to adjust to the natural weight of their bodies. Evans hissed as the shift
dragged his wounded arm heavily downwards in its sling.

"LR?"

"I'm fine chief." Evans professed.

"Nearly home." Andow promised him. "How's the jump drive, Hooky?"

Patel gave a huge, bright smile as she checked it. "Powered and ready to jump,
chief. We're above the yellow line."

Andow snatched a fist in front of his chest in celebration, and contacted the
bridge. "Sir, we're ready to jump."

_"Many thanks."_ came the terse reply. The situation on the bridge had to be
just as tense and nervous as down in the reactor room. After all, they weren't
home yet.

Moments later, the alarm sounded for a jump. All across the ship, hatches were
sealed, firefighting equipment prepared, and crew braced in case of another
fire or power failure.

There wasn't one. Instead, _Caledonia_ shunted several megajoules into her
jump engine, leapt through space in a direction other than up, and went home.

**Date Point: 10y4m1w7d AV**  
**Starship** **_Negotiable Curiosity,_** **Deep Space**

**_Wilson 'Titan' Akiyama_**

Being SOR meant being on good speaking terms with pain. In fact, it meant
having something that verged on being a friendship with pain. Pain was how
they knew they were getting stronger. Pain told them where their limits were,
so that they could push them back, and back, and back.

If you weren't in pain, you weren't improving.

That thought was becoming a mantra for Titan. His abdominal muscles had
already cramped up and spasmed a couple of times now, as the unrelenting
pressure of his EV-MASS forced them to push back. His limbs were **_tired_**,
just from the simple fact of days spent living and moving around in a suit
that weighed the best part of a hundred and fifty pounds even stripped down to
the bare minimum as it currently was.

Even his mind hurt. A man could function on regular powernaps, but there was
no substitute for a solid night's sleep.

Preferably nude. Nothing heavier than his sheets. Maybe not even those. Maybe
a shower first, if he could hold it together that long. The suit had all the
necessary pelvic plumbing to be worn for days but that didn't mean it was
hygienic. In fact, Titan was feeling filthy, itchy, and disgusting. He knew
that there was no detectable scent coming off him yet, but he _also_ knew that
the moment the seal on his suit was popped, the accumulated BO would bleach
hair.

And there were still two days to go.

He had to face it: It was time to use another Crue-D injector. He'd held out
long enough.

His buddies weren't faring any better, though Rebar was suffering the worst.
The huge burst of energy he'd expended chasing the escaped Mwrmwrwk through
the marketplace had left him with a deficit that he'd never quite caught up
on. He did his part just fine, keeping an eye on the ETs between sleep shifts…
but that was all he did. Watch, eat, and sleep. His eyes were a long way away,
staring blankly at nothing and leaving his thoughts opaque.

Akiyama knew how to help, though, and the burst of energy and vitality he was
going to get from this next Crude shot would be of value. That fact made him
feel better about finally giving in and injecting it, twenty minutes before
Blaczynski was due to relieve him at the pilot's station. That was plenty of
time for it to work.

They shared a weary greeting and hug as they traded places and Titan headed
back to the ship's common area, feeling much better now. He was going to need
a lot of recuperation, but for now the pain subsided, his muscles regained
some of their spent strength, and he felt more alert and focused.

He sat next to Rebar and put an arm around the big guy's back. "Ow." he
commented.

Rebar's voice was little more than a rumble, _way_ down in contrabass
territory. "Yeah."

"How're you doing for…" Titan glanced at Bedu's doorway. The Corti was still
sitting there, as seemed to be his habit for the flight. "…Doses?"

"Two left." Rebar grunted. He looked ashenly haggard, almost old. Despite the
youthfulness that Crue-D use returned to everybody, there were deep lines in
his brow and around his eyes and mouth. "Gonna… pop one tomorrow an'… one for
when we're landing."

"Bro, don't even worry about that. You know Horse and Base'll _want_ to carry
you off this thing if you need it."

"…You always gotta be the logical one, huh." Rebar groused.

"Shit, bro. Take my fuckin' sleep shift, too. You need more than two hours."

Ordinarily, Rebar would have refused. This time his expression was relieved
and hopeful, but he still asked "…You sure?"

"Pop a dose and get some real sleep in, man."

Rebar nodded. He slipped open the blue-green Crue-D pouch on his belt, pulled
out one of the injectors, then leaned forward and injected himself through the
little port in his suit's flank.

It wasn't surprising at all when he slouched back against the wall and then
rested his head against Titan's arm. "Still pissed that fuckin' Kwmbwrw got
away." he grumbled.

Bedu had been sitting, as he habitually did, in the doorway to his cabin and
watching them. Now he spoke up.

"Mwrwmwrwk was always an intelligent one," he commented. "And resourceful. She
was a pleasure to work with."

"Gotta give her…" Rebar yawed, "…points for tenacity."

"Dude. Sleep." Titan told him.

He needn't have bothered. Rebar was already oblivious.

"…I don't know which is more terrifying - those suits, or the fact that the
four of you have only just begun to show real signs of fatigue and
discomfort." Bedu observed.

"Can't really discuss them, man. Sorry." Akiyama told him.

"You don't need to. I am _Corti_, Titan. We can deduce much by observation. I
know beyond a doubt that you're using a Cruezzir-based medicine of some kind.
The suit contains no powered components and does not seem to be at all loose
on you, and you all dent the floor just by walking around."

Titan shrugged for him, conscientously refraining from any comment. There was
no point denying the Cruezzir observation, but he wasn't about to confirm it
either.

"May I ask you a question?" Bedu asked.

"Sure."

"Are you doing this… Voluntarily?"

"Absolutely." Titan nodded.

"You are clearly in severe pain. You are exhausted, incomprehensibly far from
home, Cruezzir use has deviated your body far from the human baseline, and you
have placed yourself in harm's way for the lives of species other than your
own… voluntarily."

"That's right. Hell, they tried to talk us out of it."

Bedu's brow arched upwards. Titan didn't know if that was a native Corti
gesture, or one he was imitating. "You were… dissuaded?"

"Oh yeah. Time and time again. The highway to become SOR is designed to
persuade you to quit and go do something easier."

"One would argue, something more sane." Bedu commented.

"One would argue." Titan chuckled, nodding. "But here I am."

"In pain."

Titan laughed at that. Rebar grumbled something and stretched out on the floor
instead of against him.

Bedu just blinked. "Something is… amusing?" he asked.

Titan stood up and stretched. He may as well make use of the Crue-D in his
system now to recover some flexibility with some extremely light exercise.

"…What's funny is I was thinking about pain earlier." he said. "I think maybe
we have a different attitude to it than you do. What do you do with pain,
what's your… like, how do you deal with it?"

"I avoid it." Bedu said. If the translator was getting his tone of voice
right, the judgement implicit in his tone was that this should be the obvious
and sane behaviour of any creature. "Don't you?"

"Pain's a good friend." Titan told him. "And there's not just the one kind.
There's the pain that says _'push harder, and you will damage yourself'_ and
another that says _'you are damaging yourself'_ and another one that says when
something else has damaged you… They're all there to warn you, but that's all
they're for."

"And you ignore that warning." Bedu sounded unconvinced.

"Because it's too cautious for the modern world. Yeah, maybe way back when we
were sharpening sticks and living in caves, our pain thresholds were in the
right place, but now that we've got…" Titan caught himself before he mentioned
the Cruezzir "…modern medicine and surgery and stuff…"

"And Cruezzir." Bedu needled.

"Whatever. Point is, we can push on through. We call it _'mind over matter'_
\- willpower and…" he smiled, figuring out the most Corti way to say it.
"_Logic_ overriding more… base urges."

Bedu inclined his head thoughtfully. "A strangely intellectual sentiment,
coming from somebody so physically robust."

Titan shrugged. "Bedu, I mean no offense," he said "but the gravest mistake
your species ever made was thinking that the two can't coexist. For us, mind
and body are the same thing. Healthy in one, healthy in the other."

"That may be true for you, but-"

"Give me _one_ logical reason why it couldn't be true for the Corti as well."
Titan interrupted him. Bedu scowled thoughtfully, so he drove the point home.
"There isn't one. There's no good reason at all why your kind couldn't have
what we have."

Bedu gestured oddly, a kind of rapid twitching of his head as if he was trying
to shake something out of his ear. "Corti as strong as deathworlders?" he
asked. "What an… absurd mental image."

"Why?"

"…I must admit you are right. Just by standing here and talking to me you
prove that there's no good reason for brains and brawn to not coexist in one
species."

"Just a thought." Titan shrugged. "In the words of my people, _'you do you'_."

"Is that a Japanese saying?" Rebar asked, sleepily.

"I'm American you racist fuck!" Titan told him, grinning fondly. "Go to
sleep."

Rebar grunted and rolled over. The odds were that he was in too much pain for
now to truly rest, but the Crue would soon solve that.

Akiyama turned his attention back to Bedu. "…So yeah. You do you." he
repeated.

"And become like you, if we wish?"

"Why not?"

Bedu rubbed a finger against one of his long pointed ears, thoughtfully. "Why
not indeed?" he mused.

**Date Point: 10y4m1w7d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Martina Kovač_**

_"Joder!"_

"Nice to see you too, Warhorse."

Sergeant Ares stepped up the ramp and into the shuttle. Martina was the only
one aboard it - only the SOR were offloading at Cimbrean, and as the only
injury among them she had been shuttled down early for medical reasons.

"Shit on Jesus," he said, "when they called down from _Cally_ and said I had a
burn patient to look after they didn't say it was you! Are you okay?"

Kovač feigned nonchalance. "Oh, y'know, just… painful blistering burns."

"Well, shit, let's get you outta there."

She took his hand and heaved herself upright on it. He couldn't have offered
better support if he'd been an iron bar bolted to the floor and ceiling. There
was another rip of stinging pain up her back and she gritted her teeth.

"Crue patch?" Horse offered, hovering nearby as she staggered down the ramp,
internally cussing herself out for just how stiff and immobile her back had
become. She had to hold herself like she was tied to a board if she didn't
want it to hurt. She hadn't appreciated just how involved her back was in
walking until she couldn't use it any more.

"Bit late…" Martina pointed out. "The window's long gone."

"You're still healing, it'll still do something for ya." Ares promised.
Martina rolled up her sleeve for him and he pressed the patch firmly to the
soft skin on the underside of her forearm, where it started to dissolve and
sink in. The process stung a little, but it was _nothing_ next to what she'd
been enduring for the last few days.

"There ya go. You'll have a lot of… y'know, dead skin back there after the
Crude's done its bit. Gonna need to exfoliate."

They started across the flight line toward the barracks, and Martina tried to
put up with the repeated needle-stabs her gait sent spearing into her.

"You mean part of my recovery is gonna be a spa day?" she asked, taking refuge
in humor to cover her discomfort. "Oh _no!_ How will I _cope?"_

"Don't celebrate just yet, smartass." Horse told her, grinning. "You're gonna
need deep tissue massage therapy as well."

"What next in the parade of calamities?"

"…From me."

_That_ brought Martina back down. "Uh… You."

"I'm not talking some relaxation reiki stones chakra alignment bullshit here.
Your connective tissue's gonna need stretching out good if you're gonna heal
up without losing flexibility. That's where I come in."

"Only _you_ could make a massage sound like torture."

"It, uh, kinda will be… sorry."

"So what, you've got to massage the _whole_ affected area?" Martina asked.

"Yup."

"'Cause, uh… I burned my butt."

His face shut down. "Well, I, uh…" he began, then cleared his throat. "I mean,
uh, w-we can, uh, sort out a, uh, a chaperone if-if you, uh…"

_There_ was the trademark Ares blush. Warhorse got a couple of shades darker
and ruddier when he was feeling awkward, especially around the ears and
forehead. It was adorable, which was _not_ a word that Martina had ever
guessed she'd associate with a guy who out-massed her several times over and
could bench-press small cars.

The annoying part was that she knew her own nose and cheeks had gone red, and
given how much fairer-skinned she was than him, there was no way the effect
was subtle.

"It, uh.. I mean, not for a couple of… you've got to heal up a bit more
first," he continued, and cleared his throat again. "Probably. I mean, I've
not actually, uh… inspected your… I mean, the wound."

They stood on the asphalt for a second or two in mutual silence, considering
the near future.

"…This is gonna be weird, isn't it?" She predicted.

"Dude. You measure my dick once a month."

"Still gonna be weird."

"…Yup."

**Date Point: 10y4m1w7d AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Cimbrean system, The Far Reaches**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

The phone rang. Caruthers permitted himself the luxury of grumbling about it
before answering.

"Oh, no, come _on…"_

This had been the first time in several days that he'd gone to bed
anticipating a solid six or more hours. Glancing at the red numbers of his
alarm clock, he saw that he'd had barely two and a half.

He answered the phone. It felt lead-heavy. "…Caruthers."

The report he received woke him up like a sobering sluice of ice water.

++End Chapter 27++

