# Chapter 01: "Run, Little Monster" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

Terri Boone could feel the bass power cords begin to thump at her bones as she
entered the bar and couldn't resist the feral grin that forced its way onto
her face - it was exactly her kind of song.

For that matter, Afterburner was exactly her kind of bar. Affordable drinks,
an Internet jukebox plugged straight into a set of speakers with the volume
turned up full, three pool tables, a dartboard, and a couple of huge TV
screens turned permanently to a sports channel. Right now, inaudible
commentators were enthusing about the night's upcoming game between the
Vancouver Canucks and the Arizona Coyotes. If she didn't live halfway across
the country, she could have seen herself becoming a regular here.

She knew the man she was after by description and it didn't take long to see
him working the bar, jawing with the regulars as he opened a couple of bottles
and handed them over. Browned skin, full beard, a cross tattooed on his right
forearm and a curious bald patch just forward of his left temple, that was her
guy alright.

She slid up into a bar stool as the patrons vacated it and was treated to a
warm grin.

"Not seen you in here before darling." He said, floating his voice over the
rampaging music with practised ease. "What can I get you?"

"I'll have a Bud, please." she called back, fishing out a bill from her purse.
"Hey, is your name Kevin Jenkins?"

"Ah." He grinned as he retrieved the bottle from its fridge and uncapped it.
"Should have known. You're here for my alien story."

"You get that a lot?"

"Got to be at least fifteen nutjobs in here a month asking me about it and
telling me about the thing they built in their garage so they can get in touch
with the mothership." Jenkins said, swapping her bills for change.

"So you claim to be an alien abductee but think others who claim that are
nutjobs?" she sipped her beer.

"Oh yeah. You can always tell the bullshitters who've convinced themselves
they got taken from the ones who really did." Jenkins replied. "The real
abductees don't want to go back."

+++

The Brood had no music, nor did they need to shout. They were perfectly
capable of vocalizing, but that clumsy mechanism was reserved only for
speaking with other Broods. Within each Brood, the intimate cybernetic wiring
that allowed full thoughts to be sent in their entirety had made language
entirely redundant.

One said: +&lt;trepidation; question&gt; _the watchful Prey have not seen
us?_+

Another said: +&lt;confidence; statement&gt; _They have not._ &lt;sneering&gt;
_Nor have the beast prey._+

This provoked a wave of amusement that circled around the entire Brood. By
their standards, the wry assumption that a non-sentient Prey species could
hope to detect a cloaked Hunter vessel was the height of humour.

The youngest said: +&lt;fear; query&gt; _The Prey are a death world species.
We saw what just one of them did to the Brood of Five Poisons. Respectfully,
Alpha, are we sure that all of our Brood shall return from this hunt?_+

Alpha said: +&lt;Impatience; terse rebuke; instruction&gt; _If you fear them
so, you may remain aboard the transport._+

It - their species did not reproduce in a gendered manner analogous to male
and female - addressed the remainder as the youngling radiated sullen apology.
+&lt;inspiring reminder&gt; _We are the Hunters, they are the prey. Death
planet or not, we will have the technological advantage and surprise. An
ambushed prey is meat in the maw. Our cousin-Broods will remember our triumph
as we return with trophies from this formidable prey, they will know our
courage and our skill. And for the prey, they will know their place in the
order of things._+

It turned to the one that operated their ship's electronic warfare suite.
+&lt;Query&gt; _Do you have an appropriately high-profile target?_+

That one replied +&lt;statement&gt; _I do, Alpha. Their whole species will
witness our hunt._

The Brood vocalised as one for the first time, expressing their approval. The
hunt was on.

+++

"I'll be honest, I don't believe a word of it." Terri told him.

"I don't blame you." Jenkins said. "But, look at this." He leaned forward and
turned his head so that she could inspect the bald patch on the left side of
his head. Up close, it was an intricate web of fine white scars that produced
a pattern which looked disturbingly like circuitry.

"That's where those grey fuckers shoved an experimental translation implant
into me." Jenkins said. "It worked, but the doctors who took it out of me said
it was a pretty damn crude one."

"These would be alien doctors." Terri said. She had to admit, the scars were
compelling evidence, but she was a natural skeptic. It went with the job.

"Yep. See they greys - "Corti" is the pronunciation used by species that have
mouths which work kind of like ours - apparently they had this big eugenics
program and turned themselves into a civilization of immoral scientists. They
abduct pre-contact species, figure out how we tick, and use that data to
corner the market in translation implants and other biotech when we make first
contact. Real assholes. Most of the others are pretty cool though."

He thought about this. "Actually, some of them are as dumb as a bag of beans.
There's one species, look kinda like six-limbed giraffes with blue stripes.
Those guys are about as sharp as a sack of wet mice. But most of the critters
out there are cool."

Terri waggled her empty bottle by way of asking for a replacement "So if
they're mostly pretty cool, why wouldn't anybody want to go back out there?
Flying among the stars and all that sounds pretty fun."

"It will be, when we're out there." Jenkins said, grabbing a replacement. "But
for now, because we haven't invented FTL travel, we're legally considered to
be non-sentient fauna rather than intelligent people. Even when there are
trade ships out there captained by beings who've got all the brains of
biscuits and gravy by our standards."

"Why the interest, anyway?" He asked her, all of a sudden.

"I'm a private investigator." She replied. "My client's paying me a lot to
travel the whole country looking for what he called 'genuine' abductees."

"Do I fit the bill?" Jenkins asked.

She truthfully told him that she didn't know - her client had only asked me to
hunt down people who weren't obvious crazies. He'd taken her to a UFO
convention in New Mexico, gestured to the whole room and said 'Ms. Boone, this
is the kind of people you're _not_ trying to find for me.'

It was a pretty nebulous description, but the client's generous travel budget
and seemingly limitless ability to keep up with her fees had kept Terri happy
and comfortable on a road trip all over the USA for the best part of half a
year, and if it meant she got to drink in exactly the right kind of bar
interviewing a bartender who - she had to confess - was exactly the right kind
of rugged sexy, then those were the kind of contracts she had dreamed of when
she became a P. I.

"I guess he didn't want me accidentally giving away what kind of answer I was
looking for." she finished. "If it helps though, I don't think you're crazy.
More… bitter about something."

Jenkins laughed. "Yeah, Kirk said pretty much the same thing".

"Kirk?"

"Oh yeah. The coolest guy out there. His species has a language that sounds
like ball-bearings in a blender, but the first syllable of his name sounds a
bit like "Kirk", you know, like from Star Trek? So that's what I called him.
He told me a few weeks before I came back to Earth that I seemed bitter about
something."

"Was he right?" Terry asked.

"Could be. See, there's this species called…"

"_What the fuck_?! Hey Jenks, are you seeing this shit?!"

+++

With nary a ripple of displaced air, the Hunter raiding vessel slipped down
into planetary atmosphere. Unnoticed by even the most sophisticated
surveillance and interception network on the planet, it sashayed through cloud
and current until it found its destination - a city of gleaming steel-and-
glass towers on the banks of an inland sea, surrounded by snow-capped
mountains. It settled above a dome-roofed building that nestled squat and low
among the skyscrapers, causing some minor static in the transmissions coming
from within, which were quickly compensated for by the small army of
technicians who kept the broadcast going out all over the world.

+&lt;Query; intrigued&gt; _Combat trials, perhaps? Ritualized training to do
battle in cold-weather conditions_?+

+&lt;Terse; impatient&gt; _We are not anthropologists! Brace yourself,
siblings. We drop in a full hand of pulses._+

+&lt;Eager; aggressive&gt; _Meat to the maw!_+

The traditional hunting cry reverberated in silence among their collective
minds, and then their boarding torpedoes erected their stasis fields, keeping
any and all external forces from doing anything to their occupants. When they
opened again a subjective non-event later, they had been fired through the
roof of the Rogers Arena and each stood upright in a bullseye of cracked ice.

As one, the Brood stepped out of their assault torpedoes, spun up their heavy
Kinetic Pulse guns, and opened fire indiscriminately into the stunned players,
officials and spectators.

+++

"Shit! Oh my god those poor people!"

The music had been shut off, and the sound of the sports channel turned up.
The commentators were going delirious trying to describe the sight of an alien
attack right in front of their eyes. Terri's hand was across her mouth in a
shocked reflex, watching them viciously lay into a mass of humanity that had,
up until mere seconds earlier, been completely unaware of their existence.

"Hunters." Jenkins said. He did so quietly, but everybody nearby suddenly
glanced at him. Alone of everybody in the bar, he was the only one not
apparently appalled by the sight. Instead, he had an expression of savage
anticipation.

"Oh, y'all believe me now?" he asked. "Yep, those are the hunters I told you
about. The ones I - me, your barkeep - personally beat the fuck to death with
my own bare hands."

His grin broadened. "And the stupid bastards made the mistake of raiding a
hockey game? This, boys and girls, is going to be fucking funny."

+++

Alpha stepped from its assault pod and fired directly into the chest of the
first Prey it saw - one of the armoured ones on the ice. Instantly, the Prey's
bewildered stillness gave way to the panic that all Prey fell victim to when
the Hunters arrived. Many emitted high-pitched squeals of alarm, many more
stampeded to escape. Around it, the Brood stepped onto the ice and launched
Kinetic bolts at anything that moved.

Each shot knocked Prey flying, and Alpha felt a savage surge of pride. Their
Brood would gain much respect for taking on death planet predators and
scattering them like any other herd. Alpha could imagine the praise songs and
taste the honour-feast already.

And then the Prey it had shot stood up.

+++

"See, they have this planetary classification system for temperate worlds like
ours." Jenkins said amiably, as on the screen one of the players hauled
himself back up onto his skates, clearly a bit winded but otherwise no worse
than if he'd taken a hard body-check from one of the Arizonan players.

"Category one is, like, the Garden of Eden. You could drop any species in the
galaxy down there completely buck bare and they'd be happy as Larry for the
rest of their lives." he continued, as Canucks and Coyotes players helped one
another to their feet. Alien though their body language was, everybody could
see the alarm and surprise the Hunters were feeling as every single one of the
humans they had shot turned out to be not only alive, but angry.

"Most planets are like, a four to six or so. You don't want to get caught in
the rain and you'll need to work for your food, but generally it's pretty easy
living on those worlds."

The aliens fired again, punching the players off their feet again.

"Anything above Class ten is considered a deathworld." Jenkins continued as,
yet again, the players got back up, and this time they started skating around
the invading aliens, which formed a defensive corral and began to fire wildly
at the circling sportsmen. It quickly became apparent that their reflexes and
aim were remarkably sluggish and that the circling skaters were just too fast
to hit. Shot after shot splashed harmlessly on the plexiglass.

At first, the people behind the barrier cowered, but that plexiglass was rated
to a much, MUCH higher resilience than even the heaviest Kinetic Pulse fire.
It didn't take long for the cowering fans to realise this, and begin to chant:
"Kick their ass! Kick their ass!"

Jenkins went on, raising his voice slightly above the swelling, bloodthirsty
chant. "Deathworlds have things like high gravity, poisonous plants and
critters, lots of carnivores, nasty little microorganisms, natural disasters
like earthquakes or volcanoes, acid rain, high background radiation, stuff
like that. Like I said, a deathworld is everything Class Ten or above, and
anything that evolves there is supposed to be really goddamn dangerous."

By now on TV, the crowd were roaring at full volume: "KICK THEIR ASS! KICK
THEIR ASS!"

+++

Alpha brodcast: &lt;Shock; dismay; terror; disbelief; shame&gt;

Then one of the Prey hurtled towards it, at speeds that simply defied
understanding.

The last thing it ever broadcast was: &lt;PAIN!&gt;

+++

Most eyes in the bar closed and turned away from the carnage on the ice in
disgust. Terri Boone watched out of morbid fascination. It seemed impossible
that things which looked so menacing might break so easily.

Kevin Jenkins opened a beer for himself.

"Earth," he said, with vicious satisfaction. "Is a Class Twelve."

