# Chapter 06: "Taking Back The Sky" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**One year and seven months after the Vancouver Attack**

One broadcast: +&lt;_awe; respect; statement_&gt; The Alpha-of-Alphas is
here.+

Another broadcast: +&lt;_anticipation; glee; eagerness_&gt; The first human
meat to the Alpha-of-Alpha's maw!+

The Alpha-of-Alphas broadcast: +&lt;_rebuke_&gt; The quarry is dangerous.
Remain focused.+

Chastened, the Brood-Guard fell into line respectfully around and behind the
Alpha-of-Alphas as it emerged from its vessel. It stood nearly a head taller
than even the largest of the lesser Alphas, and had undergone yet more
extensive cybernetic upgrades, bonding all manner of arcane technology -
reputedly of its own design - into its own flesh. The result was a mountain of
metal and seething power, with seven blinking eyes gazing balefully out at the
world of prey around it, covering all the angles, never resting.

Despite its size and bulk, the Alpha-of-Alphas moved in almost perfect
stalking silence, a display of its long experience and skill as an apex
predator. Without further communication, the Guardian Brood followed their
master as it pursued the most recent contact report.

They paused as the lights flickered, and an instant later the deck heaved and
rang to another impact - a stray shot from the battle in the void outside. The
Dominion's vessels were selling themselves dearly, even self-destructing
rather than accept capture and the fate of all prey. But this was the first
time the Swarm-of-Swarms had shown itself, and not even a third of it was
committed to the battle. most was still cloaked, on standby for the event that
Dominion reinforcements should arrive. By the decree of Alpha-of-Alphas, the
Hunters were yet to show their full strength. That third, however, was still
many thousands of ships, and the defenders had either fled or were being swept
aside in their suicidal bid to protect the station for as long as possible.

The part inside found their quarry when a Brood-lesser tumbled into the
corridor before them, crushed and broken, dead before it had stopped sliding.

The Alpha-of-Alphas broadcast: +&lt;_command_&gt; Release the drones.+

They did so, a swarm of insect-sized devices that would record what happened
next and inject the footage directly onto the prey's data networks. _This_,
they knew, would prove to the prey beyond any doubt whom they should most be
fearing.

The microdrones zipped up and out, retreating to the corners and ceiling of
the room the dead Hunter had been thrown from, and then The Alpha-of-Alphas
stalked through the door.

++

Caleb wouldn't admit it, but he was starting to get scared. The children were
hiding in a storage locker behind him, and so far he'd kicked the ass of every
white freak that had come for him, even ten at a time. But he was tired -
exhausted, even. Punch-drunk from so many of those weak-ass ray guns, floating
in a shaky sea of stale adrenaline, bleeding from his nose and ears, bruised
over practically every inch of his body, he still willed himself to stand up
and face the _next_ monster that came to challenge him.

This one, unusually, came alone. It was larger than the others, and armour-
plated. It did not, however, seem to be carrying one of those pulse guns.
Caleb was no idiot - he wasn't about to assume that the monster was unarmed,
and he doubted that he could have got past that armour when at his peak, let
alone now. He could see the writing on the wall, and felt strangely at peace
because of it.

"Time to die, huh?" he asked the monster, which surprised him by growling a
reply in English. it actually _spoke_ the English, too, he could tell the
difference.

"_Yesth. Ti-ime to die. M-eat to the m-aw._" it said.

"Fuck you." Caleb told it.

He charged.

The alien raised its arm, aimed at the ground in front of him and fired, once.

He died.

++

The Alpha-of-Alphas broadcast: +&lt;_Satisfaction_&gt; The builders are to be
commended. These nervejam grenade launchers work exactly as anticipated.+

The servos of its powered exoskeleton whined as it picked up the dead human by
the back of his neck. The quarry seemed even heavier in death - the co-
ordination and balance that had kept it upright and agile during his life was
gone now, replaced by a few lingering twitches as the last jolts of the
Nervejam effect rampaged around that delicately-optimized masterwork of a
nervous system. All that was left was a mass of meat and bone as heavy as the
Alpha-of-Alphas itself was even in its exoskeleton, and a fraction of the
size.

No matter. The Prize awaited. Its helmet dismantled itself, dissolving into a
swarm of construction nanites that crawled back into their hive at the nape of
the Alpha-of-Alpha's neck. It considered its limp prize for a second, and then
opened its jaws as wide as they would go, bit into the human's throat with all
the strength it could muster, and - with some effort - ripped free a mouthful.

The meat was indescribable. Dense, lean, rich, full of that indefinable spark
of sentience. It exceeded even the Alpha-of-Alpha's most extravagant
fantasies.

+&lt;_ecstasy_&gt; MEAT TO THE MAW!!!+

the cry was taken up among the brood, it spread to the swarm, and from there
to the Swarm-of-Swarms and through them, every Hunter in the Galaxy.

The first Great Hunt had been successful.

**Two years and Five Months after the Vancouver attack**

Captain Rylee Jackson. It was a good name, and she hoped that people would
remember it, and for the right reasons. She hoped that she would be remembered
for earning this mission on skill and merit, rather than being sneered at as a
diplomatic bit of political correctness, given the job just because she was a
black woman.

It was a crazy mission. She'd gone to church, said her prayers, prepared
herself as best she could. There was a non-zero chance that things could go
horribly wrong, but all test pilots knew that. You just had to trust your
sled.

"Houston, _Pandora_. Final checklist complete." she intoned, her tone steadier
than she felt.

"Copy _Pandora_. There's no window here, Rylee, so just go whenever you're
ready for it." She knew that her flight operator down in Houston was probably
just as scared as she was, but there was that voice, the calm and steady one
that said everything, no matter how dramatic, with perfect clarity and
confidence. She knew that even if she disintegrated in a few seconds, that
professional tone would never crack. She could become a smear of plasma across
half the heavens, and add her name to the victims of humanity's odyssey, and
that voice would coldly describe her demise as a "malfunction".

In its way, that was comforting.

"Houston, _Pandora_… Let's take back the sky."

She allowed herself a smile of triumph at not repeating Armstrong's mistake
and choking on her big quote. Still congratulating herself, she pressed the
button. Two seconds and a billion kilometers later, with a ferociously
ecstatic whoop, Rylee Jackson entered the history books as the first human
being to outrun light.

Jenkins' bar erupted. The entirety of the Scotch Creek base staff had crowded
in to watch the moment when their two years of hard work had paid off, and
paid off it had, in style. From Claude Nadeau's breakthroughs in electrostatic
field emitters that had allowed _Pandora_ to fly on gargantuan weightless
wings of pure force-field and boost itself into space for a fraction of the
expense required by a traditional rocket, to Ted Bartlett unravelling the
secrets of spacetime field distortion technology and inventing a distortion
drive that actually worked on a reasonable budget of energy, without any
awkward relativistic time dilation and without ripping apart the sun in the
process.

General Tremblay smiled indulgently as the crowd of ecstatic scientists formed
a circle with their arms around each other's shoulders and launched into a
drunken, cacophonous rendition of "We Are the Champions".

"Heck of a day."

He turned to Kevin Jenkins, who had been the one to start the song on the
bar's music system. He had fit into the base perfectly, falling comfortably
into his niche as the Scotch Creek Research Facility's resident purveyor of
alcohol, caffeine, filling food and televised sports matches. Probably two-
thirds of the major breakthroughs at the base had taken place over coffee and
bacon cheeseburgers at the bar's increasingly-scuffed wooden tables.

"Heck of a day." Tremblay agreed, trying to make it sound like his heart was
in it. Jenkins just handed him another coffee - black, two sugars - with an
expression that said he could see straight through the general's attempt at
positivity. He was as bad as Dr. Sung sometimes.

"Shitty time for a divorce, general." Jenkins said.

Check that. Jenkins could be far, far worse than the doctor sometimes. He
didn't have a professional code of conduct stopping him from being blunt.

"How… how did you guess?"

"Doesn't take a rocket surgeon." Jenkins told him. "You've been sitting there
staring at your wedding band looking like you took a dump and found a kidney
in the bowl."

"Is there such a thing as a _good_ time for a divorce?" Tremblay asked.

Jenkins thought about it. "When you wake up the morning after a night out on
Vegas and there's a shaved orang-utan in your bed?"

Tremblay couldn't resist it: he laughed. Jenkins gave a satisfied nod. "how
long were you married?" he asked.

"Ten years. Stefan's a great guy and I love him so much it hurts, but… y'know,
he wanted me to retire and adopt a couple of kids with him. But then Rogers
Arena, this base…" Tremblay sipped his coffee as he trailed off.

"Life happens, man." Jenkins told him. "At least it's not boring. Be a whole
lot worse for you if you were moping around at home lovesick and not knowing
what to do with yourself."

"True. At least I can focus on my work…" Tremblay smiled at that, his first
genuine smile of the day, as he looked at the big-screen on the wall, where
mission control at Houston was just starting to settle down from its
jubilation and get back to work. "And we did good today, didn't we?"

"You did damn good, man." Jenkins said. "Sure, that kid Jackson's the name
everyone will remember, but she'd never have got up there without you. Hell,
it was you persuaded the treaty members to unify their space programs. I
guarantee that _Pandora_ would never have been funded without that."

Tremblay nodded, and put his drink down. "Thanks, Kevin. I needed that."

"Anytime, Martin."

"She has been in there for &lt;_two months_&gt; now. We think she managed to
tap into a water pipe and from the smell she maybe even set up a Dizi Rat farm
in there. And she refuses to come out."

"Would you, when the galactic news is full of members of your species being
thrown out of the airlock?"

"Look we weren't going to do _that_. We were just going to… you know, evict
her. Give her a little ship and some nutrient spheres and point her towards a
nice Class Eleven somewhere. She's from a Class Twelve, right? She should have
no problem surviving there."

Kirk issued the equivalent of a frustrated sigh. Like all Rrrrtktktkp'ch, he
was fond of his Vz'ktk cousins, but they really were as dense as a bag of gold
sometimes.

"I did some research on this one. She used to sell insurance before the Corti
took her. She used to sit in an office with a headset on talking to people
over audio-comms. On her days off, she used to fashion garments out of spun
animal hair, and went swimming in a heated, disinfected pool. She may be
native of a Class Twelve but frankly I think she might have starved to death
on a Class Six." he said. A thought struck him and he chuckled. "They abducted
her on the way home from that pool, actually. Think she knows where her towel
is?"

"Her…Towel? Uh… I don't… nobody ever…"

"In-joke. Never mind." It was hard being a fan of human literature sometimes.

"…Okay? Well. I don't know how you're going to get her out of there, nobody
can fit in there except maybe for a Gaoian or Corti, and even if they could,
she's _human_. She broke a security officer's leg _accidentally_!"

"Oh, it's okay. I think she just needs to see a friendly face."

The Vz'ktk security officer looked up as the door cycled to admit Maria, Amir
and Allison, the latter of whom flipped a jaunty mock salute to the stunned
officer before she and Amir stooped slightly and presented their linked hands
to boost Maria up into the open ventilation duct below which Kirk and the
officer had been conversing. A second later, Amir boosted Allison up into the
vent as well, and then leaned against the wall and waited, watching the tall
blue being with that unsettling binocular gaze that seemed to flicker all over
him, taking in every detail.

"You brought _more_?!"

"Several." Kirk said, secretly enjoying himself. "Don't worry, they've all got
disease suppression implants."

"But.. don't you know how _dangerous_…?"

"Who, them or the Hunters? They're nice people. A little strange, some of
them, and I really can't tell if that's because of the isolation or if that's
how they always were, but trust me, every single one's as moral and good-
natured a being as you could wish to meet. And the Hunters don't have the
first clue my little flying sanctuary exists, so far as we know. Besides, if
this goes as well as it usually does, she'll be on board among her own kind
and we'll be gone soon enough."

"Sanctuary. You're… keeping them safe?"

Kirk nodded. "Somebody has to take care of the poor little monsters when the
galaxy's losing its mind." he said.

There was a scuffle from the vents, announcing Allison and Maria's return.
Behind them was Abigail, the woman they had come to rescue. She dropped
lightly to the deck in the - for her - light gravity, shot the officer a glare
that wished it could be as deadly as the rest of her, and shook hands with
Amir, who extended a friendly arm to invite her back to the ship.

Kirk was secretly delighted to notice that she had a large beige towel draped
over her shoulders.

"See? Problem solved. Now you can put out the word that your station is a
human-free zone and the Great Hunt will pass you by, hmm?"

He said it lightly, but there was an accusatory edge to the apparently benign
observation. He regretted it when the officer wilted slightly, and reminded
himself that it wasn't the poor young male's fault - he was just following
orders, in a job not dissimilar to the one Kirk himself had held only a few
years ago.

On a whim he decided to repair things and sent a small currency gift to the
officer's personal network.

"Here. Get yourself some _tllktrrk'nq_ or something. My treat. You'll get in
touch if any more humans show up?"

The officer offered a defeated gesture of assent. "Sure. Yes. I will."

"Good. Thank you. It's been a pleasure."

He swept from the room. Behind him, the pressure of sheer charm that he'd been
keeping up the whole time slowly deflated, and the security officer recovered
himself enough to glance at his personal funds, the ceiling vent, and the
door.

"What the _sh'rrt_." he muttered.

++

"Okay, I've seen some fast-talking in my time, but you had that guy just
swallowing every word you said within seconds of meeting him." Allison
commented during the walk back to the _Sanctuary_. "How'd you do that?"

"Vz'ktk have an instinctive respect for the judgement and intelligence of my
own species." Kirk explained. "All you have to do is keep talking in an
amiable 'I know everything about everything' tone of voice and they'll agree
to sell you their sister if you keep it up long enough."

"You're shitting me."

"Exaggerating." Kirk allowed. "but they really do grow up with the idea that
we're the smart ones. That builds a degree of innate respect and trust."

The _Sanctuary_ had been modified yet again since the Hunter Ultimatum,
growing three rings of cabins that encircled the reactor, enough for four
times its current population. Given that they were sized for the average
species, they were huge by human standards - the beds large and luxurious,
with plenty of room for floor exercises. Kirk had permanently set the gravity,
temperature and pressure on those decks to mimic sea level on Earth, and left
the human passengers to their own devices.

That ultimatum had made Kirk's job much easier. Ships, bases and stations
across the inhabited galaxy had scrambled to appease the Hunters, and the
humans living aboard them had understandably reacted to protect themselves.
Finding abductees was now as simple as following the requests for military
support from the Dominion's naval forces.

And of course, the humans they found were _more_ than happy to leave. Showing
up with three friendly _homo sapiens_ and sharing the name of the ship seemed
to be pretty much all it took, now. The most time-consuming part was all the
traveling.

Still, in two years they had averaged slightly less than one new rescue a
month. Too many times they had arrived to find the human they were chasing had
already left. A few times, they'd arrived to find their sought refugee had
been gassed, or had their hidey-hole depressurized.

One station's overseer admitted that they had resorted to Nervejam, and
Allison caught Maria's wrist just in time. If that grief-driven slap had
connected…

The station's overseer still got an up-close and personal introduction to the
wrong end of Allison's pistol, however, and a personal promise that there
would be a reckoning someday.

The whole ship had been in a subdued mood for several days after that
incident. They'd held a "wake," a kind of bawdy funeral service. Kirk hadn't
joined in. Twenty-two humans throwing a party to help themselves feel alive in
the face of futility and pointless death was more than even he could handle.

Three of the twenty-two - twenty-three, now - only rarely showed their faces,
preferring to lurk up in the cabins and avoid him. The rest were happy to
spend time in the large recreational area, playing games, watching movies, or
just hanging out and talking. He was pretty sure there was a fair amount of
sex going on in the cabins, too: months or years of isolation without seeing
others of their own kind had left many of the refugees with unresolved
tensions that they were vigorously and gladly resolving.

Kirk had first started researching human sexuality long ago when the
Observatory was first established. What he found had initially disturbed him,
and then later made him jealous. Among his own kind, the point of reproduction
was reproduction. It brought emotional fulfilment and intellectual pleasure to
carry out the act of continuing the species, and the act itself was reportedly
pleasantly intimate and had some enjoyable sensations. Kirk didn't know first-
hand, having fathered no children.

For Humans, however, the act itself seemed to bring intense physical pleasure,
as well as considerable emotional satisfaction and positive social
repercussions. Like everything the species did, there were conflicting norms
and etiquettes everywhere. There was a stigma to having no sex and a stigma to
having too much. There was a stigma to having never had sex, and a stigma to
having it prior to engaging in a legal bond-partnership. There was a stigma to
sex with members of the same sex - and the fact that this was even an option
had been a source of major confusion for Kirk at first - and yet most humans
seemed to be to some extent inclined to bisexuality.

Then there were gender identities: ones that correlated with the biological
sexes, ones the directly opposed them, and gender identities that had nothing
to do with either of the available biological options at all.

The whole thing was bewildering and strange, but also exciting, and made Kirk
feel a little envious. He had long since realized that for all their physical
impressiveness and mental agility, humans were still just as fragile as
anybody else in their own ways. To learn that they had a whole type of
pleasure available to them which Kirk would never be able to experience for
himself felt a little unfair.

He was wondering how it had helped them survive the conditions on Earth when
his train of thought was interrupted by a call from the ship. He had left
Lewis in charge of the ship's sensors and comms.

"Kirk man, uh… like, we just got some pretty big news, dude."

Lewis was… interesting. They'd picked him up at a Corti research facility on a
barren planet that officially had no name but which Lewis insisted was called
_'Kerbin'_ on the grounds that he'd been the first to name it. Although he'd
originally been taken there as a test subject, his _'escape'_ had apparently
consisted of amiably disabling the forcefield on his containment cell before
letting himself into the lab to explore some avenues of research that his
abductors hadn't even considered. He was the only one on the crew who'd needed
persuading to leave, though it hadn't been a difficult negotiation: His
objections had faded the instant he realized there were _'chicks'_ aboard
Sanctuary.

Kirk hadn't yet managed to figure out if his speech pattern was due to the
permanent influence of some Corti experiment or a lifetime of recreational
narcotics, or if was just an affectation. Whatever the explanation, it was
clear that behind that dopey dude attitude was a mind to rival the very
greatest alumni of the Corti Directorate's education system.

Strangely, he and Amir had become instant best friends. Kirk had no idea why.

"Share it."

"Uh… news from Earth, dude. Looks like our guys just went FTL for like the
first time ever."

Kirk came to a dead halt in the hallway, oblivious to the beings that were
edging around the knot of three humans to get past him.

"Uh… Kirk? Why are you smiling, man?"

"Oh, no reason. It's just nice when your friends impress you."

"Meeting is called to order in the chair and so on let's get on with this. HOW
did they get FTL so quickly?"

The scribe scrambled to finish the block of formalities that were the usual
preface to meetings of the Dominion Security Council, and then gave up in
bewilderment as the representatives of five different species all tried to
speak at once.

While most of the remaining representatives just looked silent and glanced
sideways at one another, one raised a huge hand and waited, radiating a
patient pink.

"Councillor Vedreg?" the chairman addressed him. "You have an opinion."

"I do." The clamour died, and they turned to listen to him.

He took a moment to gather his shawl of office around his upper shoulders and
strike a suitable statesbeinglike posture before launching into his
explanation.

"We have reason to believe that a functioning wormhole beacon may have been
smuggled to Earth during the early years of the Observatory program. Despite
having been moved outside of the barrier, the Observatory still exists and has
been monitoring spacetime distortions around Earth and its near orbit. Among
the many traces we found in the subcycles preceding the launch and test flight
of this human craft, were some that corresponded to the generation of
experimental wormholes."

"Reverse-engineering a working Apparent Linear Velocity drive from the
temporal stasis technology contained in Hunter assault pods would have yielded
FTL technology ahead of schedule anyway, gentlebeings, but when coupled with
access to a working jump beacon…"

The Rauwryhr delegate interrupted him at that. "Jump beacons are useless by
themselves." she pointed out.

"For travel, maybe. For the purposes of learning the fundamentals of spatial
distortion science, you could not ask for a better specimen technology."
Vedreg explained calmly.

The Gaioan delegate - a venerable male with long streaks of white around his
eyes and muzzle - spoke up. "Need I remind the council that while the reforms
to Dominion law concerning the status of intelligent non-FTL capable species
is still being negotiated, the law has always been clear that once a planetary
civilization has successfully and safely caused one living member to travel
faster than light, they are official sentients and must be afforded the full
rights and protection of a provisional member?" He said. "I must repeat that
it is the official stance of the Clans of Gao that the quarantine field is a
crime against the human race and that it should be removed as soon as
possible."

There was the general equivalent of nodding and "hear, hear."

Vedreg's flanks flushed a complicated medley of reds and purples. "In a purely
personal capacity, Father Vyan, I agree, and I would like it on record that I
voted against the proposal when it was first tabled in the Confederate
Assembly." he said. "I was outvoted, and it remains beyond my power to
countermand that decision."

Kirk's replacement as the representative for the Vz'ktk Domain spoke up. "But
it is not beyond your species' power to ignore the Founding Charter." she
retorted. "The Confederacy is constitutionally obligated to remove that
quarantine field."

Vedreg clamped down on emotional luminscence, allowing only a forthright grey
shaded with firm dark orange to show. "You are correct, of course. However…"
He trailed off, searching for the correct way to phrase his next explanation.

The Corti representative finally chimed in, deploying a careful "…however?"
into the conversation at the precise moment it would do the most harm to his
confidence.

"However the barrier cannot be removed." Vedreg explained.

"It must be." asserted the Corti representative, calmly.

"I do not mean that my government is officially unwilling to remove it -
though that is in fact the case - but that we do not in fact have the ability
to do so."

This was met with an incredulous silence that he rushed to fill.

"Humanity have attracted the ire of the Hunters. FTL-capable sentients though
they may now be, they lack the orbital defensive infrastructure to protect
themselves from the "Swarm of Swarms" should it descend upon an unprotected
Earth. The best guess of our own Xenopsychologists is that the Hunters are not
_afraid_ of humanity, but are instead jealous of them. The humans have, after
all, attracted considerable attention and fear in recent cycles, and the best
guesses we have into Hunter psychology is that they view it as imperative that
they be feared.

"The existence of a species which we, their prey, apparently fear even more
than the Hunters themselves, is a direct affront to them. So, dropping that
barrier would result in the almost inevitable genocide of a species that, for
all their physical and mental tenacity, could not hope to survive a sustained
orbital barrage."

Again, the Corti spoke up. "A morally sound reason" he said, making the words
"morally sound" carry the same weight of emotional opinion as he might have
said '_financially questionable_'. "So let us hear about your inability to
remove the barrier. Your own experts designed it, did they not?"

"Indeed… to defend our own systems from external military threats. Converting
one into a containment barrier was done hastily by the simple expedient of
programming the emitter nexus to wrap itself up inside its own field."

"Surely it can be remotely deactivated?"

"You must understand, Councillor, this was a defensive tool. The risk that it
might be hacked and disabled by an appropriately skilled communications expert
would have been a military liability. The device does not communicate with
other systems via anything other than a physical connection."

The Corti nodded understanding. "Which is now impossible to establish thanks
to the way it is contained within its own field." He sniffed his disdain.
"Rather an unfortunate oversight by your engineers."

This sentiment was echoed around the table.

"The Confederacy will make all appropriate reparations to the human race of
course." Vedreg said, hurriedly.

"A safe assertion, considering that they appear to be indefinitely contained."
the Gaoian said. "The Mother-Supreme of our clan of females will be notified
of this, however. If you cannot make appropriate reparations to the human
race, you can at least offer all necessary steps to compensate those humans
who were stolen-" here, the furred councillor shot a glare at the Corti
representative, which the latter being totally failed to acknowledge "-from
their homeworld and have taken up residence in the galaxy at large, and to
those species and organisations that have taken it upon themselves to provide
them with sanctuary and a place to live."

"Meaning Gao, I assume." the Domain's representative noted, with all of a
Rrrrtktktkp'ch's dry wit.

"Among others." the councillor agreed, defiantly. She was about to offer a
sharp retort when Vedreg held up one enormous hand, flanks shaded to indicate
resignation.

"The Gaoian representative speaks the truth, the Confederacy is thus obligated
to compensate them." He agreed, having spent several boring days reviewing the
law and precedents that applied in this scenario, none of which had contained
any help for the Confederacy. "What are the terms requested by the Clans of
Gao?" he asked.

"Food supplies, nutritional supplements and medical supplies necessary to
support all humans who choose to accept sanctuary on our homeworld, plus
appropriate military hardware and assistance to defend our planet from Hunter
retaliation." the councillor replied, having clearly memorised the terms in
advance. "An immediate cessation of the information blackout surrounding Earth
and the establishment of diplomatic channels so that all stranded humans may
directly contact their loved ones. Remunerative compensation to our people
equivalent to ten thousand Dominion development credits per human refugee who
settles on Gao for longer than two cycles, and a five-cycle waiver on our
obligation to commit units to the Celzi conflict."

"Those last two terms are unacceptable." the Rauwryhr delegate objected,
siding with the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun.

"Excessive, certainly." Vedreg agreed. "While the Guvnurag have no grounds to
appeal the first, second and third terms, my people have the right to
negotiate over the penultimate term, and that last one is a matter for the
security council."

The chairman spoke. "then it is the ruling of this council that the
Guvnuragnaguvendrugun Confederacy is to pay to the Clans of Gao and to any
other people or organisation who harbour human refugees the following: food,
nutritional supplements and medical supplies to provide for that human's
needs, military assistance and/or hardware sufficient to realistically defend
them from Hunter attacks. Furthermore, the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun Confederacy
is required to permit ships to approach the Sol blockade and communicate with
Earth." It said.

"The motions have also been tabled first that the Confederacy is to pay ten
thousand Dominion development credits per human refugee to any species or
organisation which protects them, with the motion's opposition requesting
negotiation of that amount. As many of each opinion vote now."

There were a few busy moments while each representative made their decision.

"The second motion is that the Gaioan Clans should be granted a five-cycle
waiver on military involvement in the Celzi conflict, with the opposition
denying that motion outright. As many of each opinion vote now.

Again, they voted.

"As to the first motion, being the four thousand three hundred and third vote
of this council, There were two votes in favour, eight votes against, and
three abstentions. The opposition has it, and the requested sum of credits
will be renegotiated." the chairman sounded the little chime that ceremonially
marked that a decision was complete. "As to the second motion, being the four
thousand three hundred and fourth vote of this council, there was one vote in
favour, twelve votes against, no abstentions. The opposition have it and the
motion is defeated."

The second chime was the signal for council scribes, aides and messenger
drones to zip about the place in a frenzy of activity. The chairman raised its
ceremonial rod and spoke slightly louder about the noise. "this council
session will now recess until the next standard diurnal period."

**Two years and seven months after the Vancouver attack**

"Civilian vessel, this is Confederacy destroyer _Vugarunguvrunek_. Identify
yourself and state your intentions."

"_Vugarunguvrunek_, this is yacht _Sanctuary_ requesting permission to
approach the broadcast point."

"Permission granted, Sanctuary. You are cleared for one burst transmission of
no larger than three terabytes."

"Acknowledged, _Vugarunguvrunek_."

Thanks to the convenient relay offered by a Corti communications monitoring
station that had been installed twenty years previously, it was a trivial
matter for the _Sanctuary_ to squirt a total of twenty-five videos towards
Earth. Twenty-four of them were from the human refugees, many of them tearful
as they finally took the chance to relieve their loved ones' fears.

The twenty-fifth was from Kirk.

"_Kevin. I hope this finds you still alive and complaining: I know for a fact
that you're well wrapped-up in whatever's going on down there. You see, I knew
about the jump beacon._

_The one you stole was trash, by the way: so I snuck a working replacement
into your bag. Glad to see it worked as planned. Tell whoever you gave it to
that if they tune it with the algorithm that's on screen right now, we can
start sending some of these people home._

_Now, on to the really important stuff. If I know humans, you're probably
already well on your way to dropping this barrier somehow, but take it from
your old friend: for the time being, that would be a very, very bad idea._

_You see, a lot has happened up here since Vancouver…_"

