# 6.5: "Jargon" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Two years and nine months after the Vancouver Attack**

"A screensaver? Not seen one of those in years, Ted…"

"Uh, that's… actually a simulation…"

The office shared by Major Ted Bartlett and Captain Claude Nadeau was best
described as an _'organized mess.'_ Although both men had been drilled into
the habit of neatness throughout their careers, the demands of their jobs
meant that every spare surface and shelf in the room was laden with books,
papers and tablets. It looked like the statelier kind of second-hand book
shop: Densely crowded, but still as tidy and organized as it could possibly
be.

The fields of study that had seen them through University were becoming hazy
and uncertain now. The last two years had forced them both to branch out from
their respective disciplines of Cosmology and Electrostatics, and become
multidisciplinarians. It was no good focusing on one small aspect when the
_results_ came from a more holistic approach.

"What of?"

"It's a folded-space topological problem."

"We already cracked Super-L, Ted."

"One type, sure. That little book detailed three kinds, eh?"

"I thought the general's planning to recommend that we're not interested in
type 2 ERBs?"

"And for good reason, sure. But…"

"What?"

"I sent the tuning algorithm to a friend of mine, she lectures in mathematics
over in Nottingham, England. Purely as an abstract puzzle in search of a
solution, eh?"

"We already know the solution, though."

"She found two, Claude."

"No shit?"

"Nope. She gave me an alternative solution which is pseudo-stable for R T less
than one if delta-E set one to set two is greater than the exponent of the
tensor of set three p-one to p-two."

Nadeau grabbed a paper and ball-point pen - there was yet to be a better
substitute for the brainstorming physicist - and scribbled out a handful of
equations. "…Right." He considered it, then moved a few terms around, playing
with the algebra. "I see it, but… What's the Lebesgue?"

"Three."

"That's helpful. You're sure, now?"

Bartlett sketched out a proof, to his colleague's satisfaction.

"The only awkward bit is that exponent." he said. "I worked on it some more
and got this graph."

it was mostly red, though running diagonally up and right was a curved funnel
of slowly-widening blue. He tapped a point towards its flared end. "Fifty
grams." he said.

"Yeah, at seventy KC." Nadeau said.

"Possible."

"Hence the screensaver?"

"Hence the _simulation_, yes. All we need is an intersection of two ISD fields
of those magnitudes which remains within acceptable bounds for, uh… six to the
minus ten S."

"Think there is one?"

"Not enough to bet time on the IBM on it. It's busy enough with the ESF
equations for your "put the energy companies out of business" idea."

"Which is why you're running a fancy new screensaver-"

"-_simulation_-"

"-on your personal laptop rather than wasting base resources. Right."

Bartlett sighed, and with a push of his legs, boosted his chair over to the
office's perpetual coffee source. "I tell you Claude, I'm jealous of your
field sometimes. ESFs are going to change the world more than ISD is.

"You might be wrong there, Major."

"Oh come on. You've already given us the tech for cheap spaceflight, viable
asteroid mining, trivially easy near-Earth object tracking and deflection and
buildings ten times as tall as we could already build. What have I got,
besides one experimental spaceship that got named by our _bartender_?"

"Well," Claude Nadeau said, slowly and with care "Your screensaver just turned
green…"

Bartlett sighed. "For the last time, it's a simu**la**\- wait, _what_?"

