# Chapter 07: "Tensions" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

By Hambone 20 / Jun / 2015

![Hambone's picture](http://www.hfy-archive.org/sites/default/files/styles/thu
mbnail/public/pictures/picture-53-1487795029.jpg?itok=5iWd1HXJ)

**Three years after the Vancouver Attack**  
**I-5, Northbound. Everett, Washington**

_thup,thup… thup, thup… thup, thup…_

"Urgh…"

_click_

"_♪might as well face it… might as well face it you're addicted to lo-ove…
might as well face it… might as well face it… might as well face it…♫_"  
"_The five o' clock freeride, classic rock, 92.9…_ **KISM**""  
"_♫See me ride out of the sunset, on your color TV screen. Out for all that I
can get, If you know what I mean…♪♫_"

_click_

_100% chance of rain, but we got a great match-up tonight, Washington taking
on the Dallas Cowboys…_"

_click_

"_…results are in from across the globe as China announced their
representative for the first meeting of the Global Representative Assembly,
and not a moment too soon with the Assembly's first meeting taking place next
week in Cape Town, South Africa to appoint the world's ambassador in space.
CRAZY, right? And just think, this time three years ago we thought the alien
abduction people were all wack-jobs…._"

"Most were."

"_…and then good old NASA, and - forgive me folks, but I still think of it as
the AMERICAN National Aeronoautics and Space Administration. They may have
kept the acronym, but don't try and sell me this bull about how it's the NATO
Aeronautics and Space Agency nowadays, NASA landed men on the moon back in '69
and I don't care if it was a Canadian scientists who invented the warp drive
or whatever they're calling it, but it was an AMERICAN who flew_ Pandora, _am
I right?_"

"Asshole."

"_So_ Pandora _flies to, I dunno, Mercury and back…_"

"Jupiter, dickwad."

"_…nd all of a sudden it's like "hello humanity, welcome to the stars, join us
all in sunshine and hugs and yeah we're really sorry about LOCKING YOU UP,
please do us the honor of sending forth what you hoo-mens call an "am bass a
door" that we might blah blah." Why are we even bothering? you know what those
alien douchenozzles deserve? Two fingers, one on each hand! Tell 'em to come
back once they've found Jesus!_"

"Oh for-" _click_ "-fuck's sake"

_thup,thup… thup, thup… thup, thup…_

"…fuck it."

_click_

"_…And we put a_ **DEMOCRAT** _in our seat on this Assembly? I thought we were
supposed to be appointing somebody to represent AMERICA's interests, am I
right?_"

"Ugh."

_click_

"_♫♪…in New England town, feel the heat comin' down. I've got to keep on
keepin' on, you know the big wheel keeps on spinnin' around and I'm goin' with
some hesitation. You know that I can surely see, that I don't want to get
caught up in any of that…♪♫_"

"_sigh_"

_thup,thup… thup, thup… thup, thup…_

**1,500  Km above the Arabian Peninsula**

"_Ping NEO-tracking._" "…Green."

"_Test EACS._"

"Check."

"_SUBLIME power to idle._"

"…Check."

"_Power to ISDE._"

"Check."

"_Test ERB-2._"

"…Check."

"_Test ESFALS._"

"…Check."

"_Test ESHOD._"

"Check."

"Pandora, _Mission Control. Checklist complete._"

  
"Mission Control, _Pandora_. Checklist complete."

"_Copy that, Rylee. Scotch Creek reports the package is ready. In your own
time._"

"Hey, what is this, Houston? My fifth?"

"_Fifth, yes._"

She laughed. "And nobody else has even done this once, yet."

"_Elitist. Just try not to slam into the moon at seven kilolights, we've only
got one._"

She decided that she liked her new controller. He wasn't afraid to drop the
professional bullshit and send a joke up the line to comfort her nerves.

"I'll try, Mission Control. _Pandora_, going FTL."

On her own insistence, the silly big red button had been replaced with a
thrust lever. It just felt more _right_, more Star Wars. Granted it only
output a binary "go" command to the navigation computer rather than providing
analogue control over the engine power, but it still just felt right to reach
forward, grip a solid chunk of plastic and metal, and push it firmly forward
as far as it would go.

She patted an exposed patch of _Pandora_'s hull fondly. "Let's ride, baby."

This was by far the shortest hop they had yet done, she didn't even have time
to see anything happen: the moon just became bigger. In less time than an
eyeblink, it ceased to be a distinct object in the sky, assessable in its
entirety with the naked eye. Now it was an expansive feature. She realised she
was now the closest person to Luna since 1972, although still deceptively far
away at some sixty-four thousand kilometers, close to but not directly on top
of the earth-moon L1 point.

"Mission Control, _Pandora_, checkpoint reached."

"Nicely done. ESDAR has you on target to a… 0.3% deviation."

"My compliments to navigation!" She could already hear the applause in the
background.

"_Yeah, they're pretty happy. ERB-2 is still reading green, I have go code
from the package._"

"Copy, Control. Opening the door."

_This_ piece of equipment was mission-specific, and although _Pandora_ had
been designed with future-proofing in mind, she _hadn't_ been designed to
interface with alien technology, which was why the mission package was
activated via a smartphone that had been duct-taped to the flight console.

She reached out and tapped the app icon with the stylus that had been secured
to the back of her flight glove with the most useful substance in space, some
more duct tape.

A space station blinked into existence three kilometers in front of her. All
things considered, its arrival was depressingly anticlimactic. She'd been
hoping for special effects, maybe some kind of wibbly-wobbly space fireworks.
At most she detected a faint shimmering of the stars around it, as if space
had bulged gently.

The station itself, however, was impressive. _Pandora_ was by no means a small
vehicle, but the station was orders of magnitude larger, reminding her of the
time she had gone surfing in California only for a Right Whale to breach the
surface just ten feet to her right, but scaled up to eleven. It was like being
ambushed by an airport terminal.

Fortunately, they had thought to compare notes as to communication protocols,
wavelengths and codecs before the mission, so the transmission from it was
clear and bright.

The voice that spoke did so in curiously accentless English. "Embassy Station
172, jump complete. Our thanks."

"Welcome to Sol, 172."

"It is a pleasure to be here, _Pandora_. Will you be docking?"

"Not in my mission profile, 172, I'm sorry. I'd love to come aboard."

"We understand, _Pandora_. Launching shuttles, they will follow you on
autopilot to a safe landing facility."

"I look forward to coming back."

"We look forward to it too. In fact, we request that you be the pilot who
escorts your world's selected Ambassador on board. It seems only fair."

Rylee grinned inside her helmet. "Wild horses couldn't hold me back." she
promised.

"Hey, Kevin."

Jenkins turned at a familiar voice speaking his name, and laughed aloud when
he saw who it was.

"Jesus _shit_. Terri Boone? When the hell was the last time I saw you?"

She'd lost weight and muscle tone, her hair had gone from a shoulder-length
bob to halfway down her back, and she looked like death warmed up, but she
still treated him to a smile.

"About two and a half years ago." She sat down. "Nice bar you've got here. You
can sell booze on a military base?"

"Why not? They aren't on duty all the time, and they've got families. Good
coffee, too, and you look like you need some."

"Oh, hell yes. You do lattes?"

He busied himself with the espresso machine. "The best lattes in Scotch Creek,
I promise." He said, tamping down the coffee grounds and locking the
portafilter into the group.

"I've seen Scotch Creek, that's not much of a boast." she said, watching as he
selected a panini and slid it into the grill for good measure.

"You should have seen it when the convoy first got here. It's five times the
size it was then."

"And eighty percent of that's the base?"

"Yep."

He finished the drink with a flourish of steamed milk, and slid it in front of
her. "On me." he said. She picked it up like it was made with water from the
Fountain of Youth and sipped it. "Okay, that's damn good coffee." she allowed,
sagging as it chased the tension of a long journey out of her.

"Told you." he said, pressing down on the panini grill. "Now, not that I'm not
glad to see you again, but this ain't a social call, am I right?"

"It's business." she acknowledged. "I'm… kind of betraying my employer's
trust."

"Your mysterious employer?" Jenkins asked. he plated the panini and set it
down, doing that too-handsome guy smile up one side of his face as she grabbed
it and took a huge bite. "Finally exceeded your professional ethic, huh?"

"Mmf… o'm'g'd what'ff in thifth?"

"Bacon, brie and cranberry." Jenkins told her.

"Mm… I'll never say a bad word about the French ever again." Terri promised.

"So, what're you breaking trust over?"

"Well, he's going to be getting this information too, but I just figured that
you might find a use for a list of every abductee who's currently outside the
bubble."

"You're shitting me!"

She pulled a USB stick from her bag. "Nope. It's just a best guess, the end
result of thirty months of globetrotting, research and questioning people who
most of the time didn't even speak English, but I'm pretty sure it's mostly
right."

Jenkins picked up the device and pocket it. "I'll… make sure the ambassador
finds out about this."

"You've got a line to him?"

"No, but I play poker with somebody who does."

She inhaled the rest of her panini. "_God_, I needed that."

"Where the fuck did you drive from, Mexico?"

"Pretty much."

"Got a place to stay?"

"If you know any comfortable couches that are going spare…?"

"How about a futon?"

She sighed happily. "Oh yeah. You know what a weary traveller needs."

**Ten days later**  
**Cape Canaveral**

"Captain Jackson?"

She scooted out from under _Pandora_'s port wing where she and a flight
technician had been fine-tuning the ESFALS array.

"Doctor Anees Hussein, I presume." she said, rising from her trolley to extend
a hand to Earth's selected ambassador. He cut a strange figure, a small, bald,
bearded Iraqi man in a nice suit, leaning slightly on a beautiful polished
wooden walking stick while around him men and women in jumpsuits bustled back
and forth, prepping _Pandora_ and the three alien shuttlecraft for flight,
though the latter apparently required practically no maintenance. The fourth
had been shipped north to Scotch Creek, to be enthusiastically devoured by the
reverse-engineering teams.

"For my sins." he agreed, shaking her hand and smiling warmly. Rylee returned
the smile genuinely - she had always had a soft spot for charming old men with
a twinkle in their eye, and for all that he was twice her age, Doctor Hussein
had that kind of charisma by the tonne. "She's beautiful." he added, looking
towards _Pandora_ and instantly winning Rylee's good graces.

"She is." she sighed, looking fondly at her sled. "Less so when she's grounded
though. She's born to fly." "I look forward to seeing that. I understand
you'll be flying her up alongside our shuttle."

Her esteem for him grew even further. He wasn't complaining, or even
questioning, that she should be flying _Pandora_ rather than the shuttle. The
Ambassador was clearly an expert at first impressions.

"The embassy did say they hoped I'd be the one to _escort_ you and, frankly
sir, flying anything else would feel like cheating on her." She said.

"I guessed as much." Hussein replied amicably, folding his hands gently on his
cane. "I wish there was a second seat, actually. Something tells me nobody
will ever pilot her but you."

"They'd have to shoot me before I let somebody else fly my girl." Rylee
agreed, matter-of-factly.

"I had best leave you to keeping her in perfect order then."

"Please. It's a long checklist."

"Leaving so soon?"

Terri sighed. "you woke up." she accused.

"Hey, you're the one sneaking away without saying goodbye. It's not even light
out yet."

"I've been here ten days, Kevin." she said. She stooped and collected a
discarded bra, and shrugged into it, trying not to let the way his dark eyes
roamed all over her, getting a good last look, effect her. Those ten days had
been… _enthusiastic_. Both of them had made up for a couple of long, dry
years. "I need to get back."

"I know." He said, and stood up. She took her own opportunity to get a good
look at him as he yawn-stretched and then put on some pants. "I'm not dumb
enough to do something soppy like try and stop you, neither. I just figured
you may as well start the trip with a full stomach and a proper farewell."

"I guess…"

"Come on. Best pancakes in Scotch Creek, I promise."

"I've seen Scotch Creek, that's not much of a boast…"

"…_Test ESFALS._" "…Check…"

"_Test ESHOD._"

"Aaand… Check!"

"Pandora, _mission control. Checklist complete._"

  
"_Mission Control, *Pandora_. Checklist complete."

Every time, _Pandora_ performed just a little better. Or maybe it was just
that Rylee herself was becoming more in tune with her sled's foibles, but she
could swear that the disconcerting wobble that had defined their previous
ESFALS vertical take-offs was gone now.

"You alright over there, _Limo_?" she asked of the pilot of the diplomatic
shuttle, on her wing, as both craft extended their flight surface fields and
coasted higher and higher on only a gentle thrust.

"_Jealous of you. This thing handles like my sister's car._"

"That bad?"

"_The controls are idiot-proof._"

Rylee made an "aaaah" noise of understanding. "Idiot-proof" meant one thing to
an experienced pilot: that you couldn't do half of the things you would like
to have available as options.

"Hey, at least you can scratch your nose." She said, leaning forward to brush
that offending organ against the patch of velcro that had been glued to the
inside of her helmet.

The helmet was full of little customisations like that, from the velcro pad,
to a suction nozzle in case of a repeat of Luca Parmitano's experience with
water flowing freely inside the helmet or - God forbid - Rylee vomiting. The
whole suit was a testament to the power of cobbled-together solutions to minor
irritations, and was designed for long-term habitation, right down to some
rather cunning plumbing around the pelvis. She could have worn it for a week
and experienced nothing worse than the desperate need for a bath.

She noticed with amusement that she had forgotten to remove the smartphone
stylus from her glove. Oh well, it would probably prove useful anyway.

"_And you can thumb yours at us. This things gets three kilos, tops._"

"You're kidding?"

"_Nope. I'm flying the next best thing to a moped… comfy in here though. No
expense spared in upholstering the ambassadorial transport._"

She chuckled. Next to _Pandora_'s sleek-yet-functional lines that showed off
her Lockheed heritage, the shuttle was an uninspiring box that relied entirely
on its fields for aerodynamic profile. A team of designers had done their
best, stripping off the original beige paint and polishing the metal to a
mirror shine, and reportedly filling the interior with tasteful wood and woven
fabrics. The original leather upholstery idea had been swiftly abandoned on
the advice that the aliens were almost universally herbivores and would be
thoroughly disgusted by the idea of sitting on a once-living thing's skin, or
even a facsimile of it.

_Pandora_ alerted her to something with a pleasant beep. "Coming up on Delta-
point 1." she said. It was deceptive how quickly space could sneak up on them
when the ride was so gentle.

"_I see it. Slaving FTL to you…. *Mission Control,_ Limo. _Escort has the
button._"

"I have it. Mission Control, _Pandora_. Escort has the button."

"Pandora, _Mission Control. You are clear for FTL._"

She didn't bother making any comment this time, just rubbed the exposed bit of
_Pandora_'s chassis for luck, and pushed the thrust lever forward.

Again, the moon just blinked larger in the sky, and there was Embassy-172, an
impressive tower of white, almost blinding in the sunlight even through her
dark glasses and _Pandora_'s own reactive window tint.

"172, _Pandora_. Ambassadorial transport on final approach."

"_Copy,_ Pandora, _the Ambassador is cleared for bay one. Will you be coming
aboard?_"

"I will, 172. _Pandora_ requesting permission to land."

"_Permission granted, you are cleared for bay three…. ah._ Pandora, _we can't
handshake with your landing system, it's giving an incompatible protocol
error._"

"Dammit." Rylee scrabbled to troubleshoot the problem, then decided it wasn't
worth her time. "Copy that, 172. Request permission for a manual landing."

There was a pause filled with the hiss of solar radiation and nothing more.

"_…_ Pandora _did you just say MANUAL landing?_"

"Affirmative 172, manual landing."

"_That's… oh? Right. Yes, sir._ Pandora _you are clear for manual landing, bay
three._"

"Copy 172, bay three."

Rylee shook her head in bemusement as she rounded the station's bulk and lined
up on her assigned bay. In fact, of all the manoeuvres she had rehearsed in
the simulator before _Pandora_ was even built, manually landing on an enclosed
flight deck aboard a steadily-rotating space station had been one of the first
and easiest, and that had been when they still thought she'd have thrusters
that required fuel. Nowadays, with an unlimited thrust budget, it was even
simpler. Match rotation, nose forward, probe forward with ESFALS and haul
herself forward and gently on to the deck. Frankly, she doubted that the
computer could have done it any smoother.

Compared to landing on an aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf, landing on
Embassy-172 was trivial.

By the time post-flight checks, power-down and securing her ship had finished,
the bay had become host to a welcoming party of weirdness. She tried not to
stare at them as she swung her boots over and dropped down to the deck, easily
and buoyant in the light gravity.

_&lt;+Oh my God that one looks just like Rocket Raccoon, don't stare, don't
stare…+&gt;_

A short creature with the uncomfortably familiar face beloved by the UFO
community the world over approached, trailed by an archway of some kind that
moved on a hovering pad, which settled in front of Rylee.

She tried not to let the fact that half the assembled beings apparently had no
issue with nudity bother her. Strangely, the one wearing the most clothing of
all of them was the furry little raccoon-alien, who was wearing a garment that
seemed to resemble a cross between her own flight suit and a pair of
dungarees.

"Captain, if you would be so kind as to step through this decontamination
archway before removing your flight suit, you would save us all a great deal
of trouble and potential agonizing death." Requested the Grey. Up close, she
could see that the movements of its mouth bore no relation at all to what she
actually heard, which was a pleasant male tenor with a faint hint of…
condescension? Intellectual superiority? The effect was convincing and
humanizing at least.

"Sure!" she said happily, and stepped through it, followed by "Wow! Oh my
_God_ that feels weird!"

The little grey alien stepped forward sharply. "Are you in pain?" he asked,
tone tinged with concern.

"No, no, just… wow, my teeth have never felt so clean!"

"Ah, yes. _Streptococcus Salivarius_ in particular proved to be exceptionally
resilient, as did _Staphylococcus Aureus_, but we beat them in the end. You
may remove your helmet now, Captain, we are for the time being quite safe from
you."

Rylee did so, pleased to be out of it, and took the opportunity to scratch an
itch above her ear.

_&lt;+I knew that stylus would be useful…+&gt;_

"Excellent. If you intend on staying longer than eight hours, we will need to
give you a longer-lasting injection or even, if you are willing, a permanent
implant. Until then, I shall leave you in the capable hands of the rest of the
crew."

Rylee watched him go. "Wow. I've had some terse doctors in my time…" she said.
There was a chittering noise from the space raccoon. Something in… his? …body
language suggested amusement, so she decided that the chittering had probably
been the equivalent of laughter.

Her suspicions were confirmed when the translator gave him a wry baritone "By
his species' standards, that was a warm welcome."

Rylee smiled. "I guess I got so caught up in flying _Pandora_ there that I
forgot to read the cliff notes on… everyone."

She looked around, taking in the blue and white giraffe-people, the bat-
person, an enormous pile of fur in the back that seemed to be content to
observe from a distance for the time being, and more. Most of the rest of her
welcome party sketched respectful gestures of welcome and left her to converse
with the raccoon.

"I can't blame you, it's beautiful."

"_She_ is, isn't she?"

"She? As you wish. And I've got to say that was some beautiful flying. I know
Traffic Routing get fidgety over manual landings in their bays, but I've never
seen a landing that smooth from anything, muscle or machine."

"You're a pilot yourself?"

"I am! Officer Goruu, of Clan Firefang, My species are called Gaioans."

"Captain Rylee Jackson, NASA. Human, obviously."

"A pleasure. Be gentle, right? You could probably crush my hand if you squeeze
too hard." he extended a hand - and it was, to her relief, definitely a
_hand_, an honest tool-user's fingers, rather than an animal's paw - so she
disengaged the pressure seal on her gauntlets, removed them and shook the
offered extremity as delicately as she could, intrigued at how warm and silky
the short fur of his hands was.

_&lt;+I'm shaking hands with an intelligent alien raccoon. Holy. Shit.+&gt;_

"Want to see _Pandora_ up close?" She offered. "I still have a few post-flight
checks to run through."

"It'd be my pleasure." Goruu said. He started to enthuse more and more as they
got closer to the sled's hull. "She's so aerodynamic! By the time my kind
developed warp technology, we'd long since abandoned these kinds of curves in
favour of shaped fields."

"She was mostly made by a company called Lockheed." Rylee said. "She's got
those shaped fields too, but they stuck to a policy of "if it's not broken,
don't fix it." After all, if the fields fail I'd rather _not_ be flying
something with the aerodynamic profile of a boot."

"That… makes a lot of sense actually. I might have to take that saying home."
Goruu said. He stooped to look under _Pandora_'s belly. "Huh. Your kind go in
for redundancy in a big way, don't you? Pressurised cabin _and_ pressurised
flight suit, the whole hull and field thing, two forcefield landing systems…"

"She could limp home on just one engine, too." Rylee said. "It's called
Murphy's Law."

"Your legislation mandates redundant systems?"

Rylee laughed. "No, no. Murphy's Law isn't legislation. It's an… observation.
Like a law of physics. 'Anything that _can_ go wrong, **will** go wrong,
eventually'."

"I'm taking that one home, too." Goruu said. "Oh! A field-assisted scramjet?"

"Yep! She's the fastest thing we ever built by a long, LONG way, both in space
and in atmo. Mach 20 across the ground, easy."

"What's her maximum?"

"We don't actually know." Rylee beamed, correctly interpreting the Gaoian's
open-muzzled expression for the dazed awe that it was. She opened a hatch,
checked something inside, closed and sealed it, checked the seal, and then
ticked something off on the little booklet attached to her wrist.
"Theoretically, with the fields doing the heavy lifting and taking mechanical
stresses out of the equation, we _think_ she could hit somewhere upwards of
Mach 30. Of course, that's small fry next to the FTL."

"Well, obviously." Goruu agreed. "What's she do?"

"That depends how much I give her." Rylee told him. "I guess if I really
pushed her… Seventy kilolights for six hours? Of course, right now that'd be a
one way trip, they've not finished the WITCHES yet."

"Seventy… how? She's not big enough for a power plant that size. Especially
given that - no offense - I doubt your first ever FTL engine is very
efficient. And what's WITCHES?"

"None taken, she'll get faster as we swap out the FTL core. She was built to
be future-proof. Anyway, the power plant's for running the on-board
electronics and life-support. Power to the FTL comes from a supercapacitor
bank. At the moment that's charged on the ground, but WITCHES \- that's WIde
aTtainment CHarging Energy System - can take photons from any local stars or
whatever and convert them into stored energy. The bigger the field, the faster
we charge. Once that's finished and installed, in theory, _Pandora_ could go
from dry to fully charged in less than a minute just by sunbathing."

She grinned. "And of course, crazy-prepared beauty that she is, if I did get
stranded, the ship power plant is good for fifty lights. Not fast, but better
than dying alone in deep space."

Goruu stood back and used his claws to comb some stray fur back behind one
ear. "I take it back, she's not merely beautiful, she's the most gorgeous
thing I ever laid eyes on."

"Aww, the ladies must be all over a charmer like you."

"I've sired my fair share of cubs." the Gaoian agreed, sounding pleased with
himself, so Rylee assumed that her compliment had been a success.

He pulled a device that looked much like a smartphone from the pocket of his
own flight suit and glanced at it, then said something which the station
didn't translate. "I should go, my Clan-Father wants to have a word with me."

"It's been a pleasure, Goruu." Rylee said, still scarcely believing that she
was already considering an _alien raccoon_ to be a likeable acquaintance and
potential friend. She paid close attention to the markings of his fur around
the eyes and muzzle and memorized them - It would be very embarrassing to have
got on so well with him only to confuse him for some other Gaoian.

They shook hands again, and Goruu ducked his head in what she took for a
respectful gesture before jogging away.

As Rylee watched him go, she carefully tucked away the scrap of paper he had
palmed her when they shook hands, and busied herself with completing her post-
flight checks.

"Did you succeed?"

"Yes, Father." In Goruu's case, the title of respect bore a slightly more
intimate meaning: the face looking back at him from the screen of his
communicator bore markings and coloration that were almost a mirror of his
own, and there could be little doubt that Clan-Father Amren was his Sire, but
that relationship was a distant second place to the bond of Clan. Being the
Clan-Father's cub brought no special privileges, nor should it: the entire
clan structure existed specifically to avoid that kind of nepotism. But they
had a good relationship nonetheless.

"Excellent. The ambassador will be arriving shortly. We'll let this… mockery
of diplomacy play out: the important part has been accomplished. You've done
well. Did you find it hard to get into the pilot's good graces?"

"I didn't even have to act. Some of the innovations and philosophy that went
into that little ship truly are stunning, and she's hopelessly in love with
it. I confess, so am I. If we adopted some of the ideas she told me about into
our own craft…"

"Now is neither the time nor the place, Brother." the Clan-Father reminded
him.

Goruu ducked his head and flattened his ears, chagrined. "Yes, Father."

"Good lad. Take the _First Frost_ back to Gao: I've convinced a Mother to join
us."

"A Mother?"

"Yimyi. And yes," he said, holding up a paw and displaying tolerant good
humour as Goruu's expression lit up "she will have Sister Niral with her,
Brother. You'll have plenty of opportunity to make a good impression before
they head back."

This was by way of being a reward for special success, and Goruu could barely
contain his gratitude, but the Firefangs prized emotional control and
maturity, so he settled for a compsed "Thank you, Father. Good luck with the
ambassadors."

"More fool the others for making us need _luck_." Father Amren practically
spat the word.

"They can't possibly believe that concealing the existence of the Great Hunt
and the jettison order will do anything but harm in the long run, can they?"
Goruu asked.

"I truly have no idea. Gao voted in favour of full disclosure, we were
overruled, and will face sanctions if I break that ruling during this
session." Amren ruffled the fur at his shoulders, irritably. "Idiots."

He recovered himself, giving his jaw a determined set. "Goruu, making a good
impression with the humans is _vital_. It's only a matter of time before they
discover how poorly their people have been treated by the Dominion, especially
in response to the Great hunt, and Gao _must_ get on their good side: Your
rapport with their pilot and the influence of the Clan of Females might well
tip the balance. I suppose we're just fortunate that we have the time to move
behind the scenes before your note can be raised at the next meeting."

"Okay." she said. "Those were some DAMN good pancakes." "Told you." "I should…
go." "Yeah. You should."

"Yeah…"

She stood up and looked around the room. "Um, d'you know where my panties
wound up?"

"Somehow, I had expected somebody rather different. A warrior, like his
escort, not… well." the Vzk'tk ambassador signalled the image of Doctor
Hussein limping along the corridor, leaning heavily on his stick even while
engaging his aides and staff with avuncular small-talk.

"Not a frail elder?" asked the Rauwrhyr ambassador.

"You have it exactly. A reminder of their physical abilities would make
_sense_, and instead they're sending us this specimen?"

Clan-Father Amren chimed in at that point, and a few of the ambassadors
flinched. The Gaoian had been inside a privacy field for several minutes: they
had all but forgotten he existed. "In which case they have shrewdly out-played
you." he commented. "A fair reminder to respect their _intelligence_ as well
as their muscles, not so?"

The ambassador for the Corti Directorate signalled agreement. "Humans are
_not_ a savage species, gentlebeings. They are from a savage _world_. There is
a critical difference, and failing to remember it can only be dangerous."

"Forgive me, Ambassador" commented the ambassador for the Kwmbwrw "but they
eat flesh. That in itself is a mark of savagery."

The diplomats shot glances at one another. The Kwmbwrw had suffered terribly
from their close proximity to Hunter space, and had suffered raids by those
enigmatic, evil things since before they had invented movable type. It had
badly, but understandably, prejudiced them.

"So do my own species, ambassador." Amren reminded him, voice calm and
affable. "Are we savages to you?"

The Kwmbwrw wisely chose to maintain a diplomatic silence, but fidgeted
sulkily in his seat, and the gathered dignitaries refrained from further
conversation until the door opened and the station's security director
introduced the human.

"Doctor Anees Hussein, ambassadors."

The ambassadors rose from their seats in a mark of respect as the human limped
in and looked around with a faint smile, hands trembling slightly as he rested
them on his cane. "Well. Thank you for the warm reception." he said.

"We have much to discuss." the Corti ambassador said. As founding members of,
and indisputably the most influential members of, the Dominion, it was a
tradition for the Directorate's ambassador to speak first on such occasions.
"But welcome, Doctor. This day has been sooner in coming than in the history
of any other species yet known to us, and is all the more wonderful for it.
Earth has already made big waves among the interstellar community, and we are
keen to see what more your people are capable of."

There was a general murmuring of agreement, and the security director
respectfully escorted the human to his own desk, diplomatically arranged as
part of the circle, rather than in the interrogative middle of the room.

"To business, then." the doctor said. "If I may say a few words?"

"Of course."

"Excellent."

He stood up again, resting himself gently against the table and selecting one
of his notes with that same trembling hand. He fastidiously opened a pair of
reading glasses, set them on his nose, lifted the note up to peer at it, and
then nodded, satisfied.

"**ahem**"

"_Ultimatum from hunters: demand all humans be turned over else quote Swarm of
Swarms endquote will raid known human locations. All ships, stations carrying
human passengers advised: jettison immediately._"

In the ringing silence, he set the paper down and gently tweaked it until its
edges and corners were flush with its fellows. He took off his reading
glasses, meticulously folded them, and set them carefully on top of his notes,
before looking up and skewering them all with a hard glare that bore no
relationship whatsoever to the kindly sparkle his eyes had held only moments
before.

"I think, ambassadors…" he said "…that we are owed an explanation."

