# Chapter 10: Legwork | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Three years and six months AV**  
**San Diego, California**

In his career with the San Diego PD, Gabriel Ares had seen more than his fair
share of death, and the common thread with homicide was that none were
dignified. It was an act of violation that still made his skin crawl, even
after twenty years.

This one was particularly difficult, knowing that it could have possibly been
prevented if only he hadn't followed the rules.

But that was dangerous thinking and he knew it. Gabriel had seen enough cop
movies to know that Hollywood preferred the maverick, the rule-breaker, the
loose cannon. But in real police work, you worked by the book to the letter,
or else guilty men went free on a technicality. There was no room for renegade
action in his definition of a Good Cop, and Gabriel had grown up from a young
second-generation Mexican-American surrounded to the north and south by the
lure of gangs and drug warfare, and had decided very early on that he'd be a
Good Cop instead.

On days like today, that was a decision he almost regretted. It meant he had
to deal with shit like this.

With news helicopters circling overhead and a clamour of journalists beyond
the tape and uniforms, Terri Boone's body had been covered over out of concern
for the deceased's dignity. But there was no way to disguise the huge dark
smear of sun-dried blood across the parking lot, or the fact that covering her
remains had involved _several_ pieces of cloth.

Forensics were picking over every inch of the lot, accounting for every bullet
hole, every shell casing, every grenade fragment, every scrap of sundered Ford
Mustang. The lot was a forest of little yellow markers, swept inch-by-bloody-
inch by men and women in white disposable clothing, meticulously photographing
and documenting it to a fare-thee-well.

The Forensics lead - Doctor Schieffer - approached him as he leaned against
his SUV, taking it all in.

"Progress." he reported.

"You've established a cause of death?" Gabriel joked, resorting to his
trademark callous black humour that indicated when he was truly upset.
Fortunately, Schieffer had known him for years, and let the inappropriate
comment slide.

"We found the phone." the doctor held up an evidence bag. The little warped
and shattered black lump inside was barely recognisable as having once been a
smartphone. "It fetched up under that Prius over there, clean on the other
side of the lot. Probably why the shooter couldn't find it."

"_Madre de Dios…_ Think anything survived?"

"MicroSD cards are tough." Schieffer reassured him. "Forget the surface
damage, once we crack this thing open, we should be able to get the data off
it."

"Hopefully it brings us something." Gabriel said, then sighed. "I've been
putting this off. Guess I'd better go watch the security camera footage."

"Good luck, Ares."

It was as bad as he'd feared, and he made a point of _not_ watching the
victim's expression in her final moments. It wasn't relevant to the
investigation, and would just give him trouble sleeping. He focused on the
shooter instead.

"Mr. Johnson" stepped into the camera's field of view and he paused the
playback and raised his phone to his mouth, thumbing the "record" button on
the dictaphone app. "Shooter is a caucasian male, looks to be in his mid to
late 40s, about… five ten, to six foot tall, brown hair and beard…" he zoomed
in. "Camera doesn't show any notable distinguishing features. Tough guy to
pick out of a crowd. Armed with an M4 carbine fitted with an M203 grenade
launcher and a reflex sight and… yeah, looks like a pistol in an armpit
holster. Can't tell make and model from this image though."

He let it play some more, pausing it when Johnson drew the pistol in question
to be certain of his kill. "Okay, pistol looks like a… SIG Sauer P220, or
maybe 227. Hopefully ballistics will be able to work with that."

He watched as the shooter cast around for the missing cellphone, then glanced
up and stared at something out of shot - probably the arriving uniforms. Then
he looked directly at the camera.

Gabriel was struck by just how… _average_ his face was. Johnson really had
nothing in the way of distinctive facial or physical traits. A shave and a
change of clothes, and he would look completely different. He could be
anybody, _become_ anybody.

Then he vanished. Literally vanished, as Gabriel discovered when he rewound
and played over the moment of disappearance frame by frame. The feed didn't so
much as flicker, there was no indication of anything at all affecting the
camera. But in one frame, Johnson was present, and in the subsequent, he was
gone.

"How the _fuck_…?" he asked, quietly.

"How the _fuck_?" Julian exclaimed. Kirk shrank back slightly at the volume.
Six years of isolation had entirely robbed the human survivalist of an indoor
voice.

"I've planned it all out." he said. "You humans are _fast_, but the key to
this plan is that you're fast _over long distances_. I need somebody who could
hike the Appalachian Trail, and you fit the bill and then some."

"I do?"

Kirk nodded his long-necked head. It was an impressive gesture. "You've
survived for six years on the most dangerous planet in the known galaxy.
Actually, scratch that: you _thrived_ there. The biohazard screen did a full
scan of you: you're in peak physical condition. You could _run_ that trail.
That part's critical."

"I'm approaching on foot, then."

"You have to. Their sensors will pick up vehicles and dropships easily, and
with their defensive coilguns… a vehicular assault isn't possible. But the
facility's designers never reckoned on the idea that anybody could approach on
foot. It's a class eleven planet - a walk in the park next to Earth, but
dangerous to the rest of us."

"So I should just be able to jog up to the walls." Julian sounded skeptical.

"Fence." Kirk corrected him. He correctly interpreted Julian's raised eyebrow
and elaborated: "It's an ultrasound fence, designed to drive off the local
wildlife, but it's not a physical obstacle at all."

"And the actual _security_?"

"The usual. Maglocks, big steel shutters, lots of concrete, force fields, a
garrison." Kirk imitated a shrug, spreading his four arms wide. "_Not_ loaded
for human, by the way."

"I'm not the killing sort, Kirk." Julian said.

"Good, neither am I. The point is that the garrison aren't a threat to you.
Avoiding them would be best, however."

"And the concrete and steel?"

"Leave that to me. You'll be carrying a device that should help me help you."

"So… I run in, avoid the garrison, you work whatever magic you've got planned,
and then I just… come back the way I came?"

"Yes."

"Carrying a backpack full of stolen military hardware."

"Yes."

Julian blinked at him, slowly, then gave up. "Fine. What could go wrong?"

"Okay… that's got it. Out you come." the forensic computer technician wiggled
his needle-nose pliers a bit and finally the MicroSD card slid out of the
wreckage of what had once been a phone.

Everyone in the office gathered round as he clicked it into a reader and
opened its contents on his laptop. "Okay, easy-access stuff first, we'll find
any passwords or whatever secon… wow. Hey detective, there's a folder here
called _Scotch Creek_."

"Open it."

Inside were a handful of snapshots of beautiful Canadian rural terrain, and
one of the technicians confirmed that they were of the area around Scotch
Creek with a quick Google Street Maps search. Alongside them was a folder
marked "Kevin".

There was a general exclamation of surprise at that second folder's contents.
Gabriel rounded angrily on an officer who emitted a lecherous two-toned
whistle. "This isn't fucking porn! You're going to fucking whistle at a dead
woman's selfies? _¡Joder! Mostrar respeto!_"

The officer looked away, mumbling an apology.

"I don't want to hear it. _¡Vete a la mierda!_ All of you who don't need to be
here, out."

The exodus was rapid, especially the shame-faced officer who had whistled.

Gabriel calmed himself and returned his attention to the Scotch Creek folder.
Most of its content was of Terri herself, and a mixed-race guy about her age
with a cross tattooed on his forearm. None of those images were modest ones. A
memory of happier, sexier times, he guessed.

"Shouldn't be too hard to track him down." he said. "Is that name in her
contacts?"

"Let's see… yeah, here we go. Kevin Jenkins."

"Well, even if he's not a witness, he deserves to know. Keep digging, I'll
make the call."

+How are you doing?+

the text appeared in the top-left corner of Julian's vision, thanks to a pair
of dark glasses that Kirk had assembled in the nanoforge, along with some
camouflaged performance clothing of Julian's own design. The alien material
was several hundred years of materials science ahead of the best Terran
sportswear, and he felt cool, dry and comfortable despite having jogged over
rough terrain for several hours now.

The only real fly in the ointment was the breathing mask. The planet's
atmosphere was just a little bit poorer in oxygen than the galactic average,
and exertion _should_ have quickly left him gasping for breath, or maybe dying
from an aneurysm. Instead, the device on his face acted as a ramscoop, using
force fields to collect a larger volume of air and enrich each breath,
bringing it up to a comfortable Earth temperature and humidity. If it had only
been made of the same material as his running gear, he would have been fine.
Unfortunately, it was made out of some silicon-based rubbery substance which,
while light and strong, was also about as breathable as foil. The result was
itchy and sweaty.

"_making good time_" he subvocalized. A patch stuck to his throat interpreted
the muscular contractions and exhalation to decide what he had said - it was
an all but perfectly silent way to communicate.

+I meant physically+

"_Just fine. I could do this all day._"

+No need. You're approaching the three hundred meter mark+

"_You're joking_"

+Hardly. Three…+

+…two…+

+…one…+

He brushed past a tree and there the rest of the forest wasn't. Something had
stripped out a perfect circle of foliage, surrounding a facility that was
little more than a concrete bunker, a personnel building and a landing pad.

+You're in range. Wait.+

Julian did so, breathing from the exercise but otherwise surprised at how much
he still had in him. The Wall was a long way off, yet.

+The ultrasonic fence's alarm is disabled… move now.+

Julian did so. He saw the patrol - three Guvnurug in their massive combat
harnesses, shambling around away from him as they completed that arc of their
patrol route. The sound of their own heavy footfalls made his own light steps
inaudible as he dashed from shadow to shadow behind them.

+Twenty minutes before they return to this section of the perimeter.+

"_This is their idea of a secure military facility?_"

+It's completely secure against all foreseeable threats. You however are an
unforeseen factor, and as a result make this place look like a shopping mall.+

"_Don't amuse me._"

A blue diamond - his waypoint - appeared on his heads-up display, and,
checking around him for hazards with all the skill he had honed in half a
decade on Nightmare, Julian slipped over to it. It was a small door in the
side of the large concrete bunker building.

+the code is one, two… top left, the one immediately to the right of that, the
one immediately down and right from there, same one. immediately down-right,
immediately down-left.+

Julian punched in the numbers on the oversized, Guvnurug-scale pad, reflecting
that he was lucky Kirk had remembered that he couldn't read any alien written
language. There was an uncomfortably loud beep and a mechanical _clunk_ from
the door lock, and he slipped inside, wedging the door with a stone just in
case.

+The blue crates against the back wall, and two or three of the things from
the white crates on that exo-lifter's pallet.+

Having no idea what these things did, Julian just obeyed orders. It took him
only a minute or two to stuff the ordered items into the bag he had carried
all the way out here, stopping only when the weight promised to become more
than he could comfortably handle on the way back.

He helped the door close silently, checked his surroundings, flitted down a
corridor of darkness where one of the base's floodlights cast the shadow of a
tall structure of some kind, cast around for watching sentries again, saw
none, and sprinted across the open ground back into the woods.

The heist had taken maybe five minutes. If Kirk was right, by the time
anything was noticed missing, he would be back at the Sanctuary.

_brrrrp_, _brrrrp_, _brr-click_

"Jenkins' bar."

"Hi, am I speaking to Mr. Kevin Jenkins?"

"Uh, yeah, you are. What can I do for you?"

"Sir, my name is detective Gabriel Ares, of the San Diego PD."

"San Diego? Did something happen to Terri?"

"I'm sorry to tell you like this sir, but Miss Boone was murdered this
morning."

This was met with silence.

"…sir?"

There was a series of heavy sounds over the phone: a door opening violently,
the clatter of something brittle being dropped, and a heavy thumping sound.

"…I'm…. shit, that's…."

"If you need a few minutes sir, I can call back…"

"No… No, I'm…" there was a heavy, wavering breath from the far side of the
line. "…god, Terri."

"Sir, if you have any information as to a possible motive or culprit, then I
could really use that to bring her killer to justice. I know it's not much
consolation, but it's something."

"Yeah, uh… She left an envelope under my pillow the day she went home. Note on
the outside said "Please don't open this, K. It's my Batman insurance."

Ares' heart leapt to his throat. He knew that Boone had been a competent
woman, but this….

He tried to ignore the fact that it meant Terri knew her life would shortly be
in danger. "Do you have the envelope now?"

"It's upstairs. Let me…" there was a grunt of exertion, then the sound of a
door opening again. The distant, tinny voice of a woman offered concern in the
form of a "shit, boss, are you okay?". Jenkins' response was inaudible, but
was followed shortly by another door sound, and feet on what sounded like
hardwood steps, then the jingling of keys and another door sound.

"I left it… yeah, here it is." There was the sound of ripping paper. "it's a…
an email address and a password. says "Google Drive" at the top." Ares jotted
them both down as they were read out, handing the note across to the forensic
tech.

"Can you think of any reason why somebody would want Miss Boone dead?"

"Uh… Shit, you put me in an awkward situation here."

"How so?" Ares asked him.

"Look man, I'm technically a contractor for the Canadian Armed Services, so
I'm subject to the Official Secrets Act. I'd do anything to help you figure
this shit out, but it's probably best if I get some official permissions
first, you know?"

"I understand. You've got my number?"

"Yeah, I can save it. Detective…. you'll let me know when the funeral is,
right? Terri and I were close."

"I'll put you in touch with her sister." Ares promised. "You'll get back to me
once you have permission to discuss this further?"

"Sure. I… look, I'll be honest here man, I'm not holding it together too well
here, I just…"

"Take all the time that you need, my friend."

"…Yeah…"

Jenkins hung up, and Ares breathed a sigh. It had been a fruitful call, but in
some ways even harder than the in-person visit to Monica Williams, Terri's
sister. She had just cried and curled up on the sofa, inconsolable. He knew
how to deal with that. Stoic guys like Jenkins tore him up even worse, part of
him wanted to shake the tears out of them, shouting "it's okay you idiot,
you're allowed to weep."

It was advice that he would have heeded himself, if he could.

"_Welcome back_"

"So what did we steal?"

"_I'll let you know as soon as we're clear…. there we go._"

Jullian set the bag down on the coffee table in _Sanctuary_'s main lounge with
a sigh of relief. Even in the lower gravity and on a cool day, running that
far with a pack full of hardware had been exhausting, and he flopped down on
the couch, even more grateful than before for the high-tech fibre clothing.

Kirk stepped down from the command blister as he was massaging his sore legs.
"Incredible." he said, and Julian got the impression that a human would have
been shaking his head in admiring disbelief. "If I didn't know about
marathons, triathlons and other endurance sports, I'd have never suspected
that anything could run so far so quickly. They'll be scratching their heads
over this heist for a long time."

"So what exactly did I steal?" Julian asked him. Kirk opened the bag and set
the stolen goods out on the table. Five were about the size and shape of a
hard drive. the other two were larger, closer in size to a loaf of bread and
football-shaped.

"These five." he said, indicating with his smaller manipulator arms "are
wormhole beacons. Military grade, which means that they suppress their own
distortion signature and can't be detected with long-range sensors."

He picked up one of the larger objects. "The other two are system defense
field generators, like the device that's projecting the Sol Containment
Field."

"Pull the other one!" Julian exclaimed. "I've taken dumps bigger than those
things!"

His tall employer with the coat of short white fur smiled enigmatically, and
set the device down. "Why should they be large? It's all about advanced field
technology, and technological advancement usually goes hand-in-hand with
miniaturization."

"Something that small is imprisoning my entire species?"

"Far from it. Nowadays it's protecting them. Once we get these beacons set up,
human starships will be able to leave Sol whenever they want."

"That's phase two."

"Phase three." Kirk corrected him "Phase two is, we need to deliver one of
these fields emitters to Cimbrean. We're on our way there now."

"Cimbrean?"

"There are humans there. Your government's first beachhead in the larger
galaxy, and hopefully, the first of your fair share of colonies."

"And the other emitter?"

"That's for my _other_ project."

_"I'm recording this in case things go as badly as I'm afraid they might… I
guess if you're watching it, they have._"

Terri shifted. She had recorded the footage while sitting in the driver's seat
of her Mustang, the camera - presumably her phone - mounted on the dash in
front of her and slightly to the right. It was night-time, and she was parked
somewhere.

She ran her hands through her hair, accomplishing only further dishevelment,
rather than any grooming.

"_What I'm about to say sounds absolutely crazy. But, I guess if I'm crazy and
wrong then this video's never getting seen, and if it gets seen then that's
pretty good evidence that I'm onto something…_" she laughed a little. "_Which
is small comfort._"

"_Um._"

She stared out of the window for a bit. A passing car's headlights cast moving
shadows across her face as she paused.

"_I'm pretty sure there are aliens on Earth._" she said. "_Like, they've been
here since long before the embassies arrived. And I'm getting more and more
convinced that they don't have our best interests at heart. I'm an
investigator, I go by the logical, the methodical and the evidence but… I
don't know call it a hunch, call it a bad feeling, but looking at what I've
gathered so far, there's a pattern in there, and it's kind of a scary one._"

She finger-combed her hair again as it fell across her eyes. She looked
rumpled, worn and tense: Ares got the impression that a man in her condition
would have had several days' worth of stubble darkening his jaw.

"_I got to thinking, what could a list of alien abductees be worth killing
over? That's all I did for them: Spend two years on their dime, flying first
class, interviewing people, examining records, chasing leads. Legwork, you
know? I've tracked down…. thousands of likely abductees. You learn to see the
telltales after a while, the things that tell you "yes, this was THEM", not
just, like, an unhappy end in the river or in a shallow grave in the woods or
something. that's all in one of the documents, you can double-check my work I
guess._"

She looked up again as another car ghosted past, filling her own car with
light and a soft whoosh of displaced air.

"_Why could that be killing for? Why have a man in a suit waiting in my
apartment with a gun? I'm pretty sure if I wasn't safety-conscious, I'd have
walked in there and been shot and nobody would be any the wiser. Robbery gone
wrong maybe, I dunno, or maybe they… make it look like a rape or something.
Something like that. Just another California evening._"

"_Was it because I gave a copy of the list to Kevin? But that doesn't answer
the question. A list of names isn't worth shooting a girl dead in her own
apartment over, it's a termination of contract, you know? "Thank you for your
valuable work Miss Boone but we will be commissioning the services of somebody
more… trustworthy." So that list is really, REALLY important. It must be._"

For the first time, she looked directly at the camera. "_So I went looking.
I'll… look, the details are all in this Google Drive, so I won't bother
repeating them for the camera. But I'm going to be back in San Diego tomorrow,
and there's a law firm: Grey, Stanton and Friedman. The name itself is a
reference to Roswell, one of those stupid ballsy "I'll never get caught"
audacity things, I guess._"

"_Why am I looking into them? Ask Ravi Singh. He's an abductee, He lives in
Brick, New Jersey. Ravinder Kanvar Singh. For God's sake get to him before my
killer does, because if you don't get to the bottom of this then a lot more
people than me are going to die._"

"_When you find him, ask him about the Hierarchy._"

