# Chapter 17: "Battles" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 4y 8m AV**

**Classified Facility, Planet Earth, Sol**

**Hugh Johnson**

"No. No, nothing like that. It's… hard to say. It wasn't like a dream, or like
being trapped it was… it wasn't _like_ anything. I was just… dead for a while.
And somebody else was using my body. And when he was done with it, he brought
me back. But not the same. And there was still a part of me alive, kinda…"

Hugh trailed off, then shrugged helplessly. It was a very strange feeling to
be treated as if he was a stranger by somebody he knew so well, but of course
Carl had spent months getting to know his passenger, rather than Hugh himself.

"You aren't making much sense." Carl told him.

"I know, I know. Umm… I think…" Hugh paused to think. That alone was a luxury
he hadn't enjoyed for so very long, but he'd never been a man of many or
eloquent words. He just didn't know _how_ to go about describing experience
without involvement, existence without awareness. The words to hint at what
had been his life for the last several years just weren't in his vocabulary.

He hit on an idea. "The drone needs to act like a person." he explained. "But
_meat_ doesn't know how to. That part's all up to, like, _you._ The bit of you
that's yourself, y'know? But that bit can't be in charge because if it was,
y'know, I'd have run into a hospital and begged them, _'get these damn things
out of my head!'_"

"That makes sense."

"Okay, so they hit this sweet spot where _you_ \- me - **_I_** wasn't in
charge, but there was just enough of me sticking around for the body to
pretend to be a real person. You follow?"

"They retained your instincts and knowledge of correct social behaviour while
suppressing your capacity for agency and rational thought." Carl said.

"Hey, if you say so. I was never too good with words."

"You were vagrant before they… did this to you?"

"I was a bum, yeah." Hugh replied. "Dropped outta school, hit the bottle,
never looked up. All I cared about was the next forty, y'know?"

"I follow you. What did you do for cash?"

"You name it. Y'know, sometimes I'd head out east, be a farm hand, ranching,
sometimes I'd do favours for people - like, "my friend's moving house, can you
help move her couch?" that kinda shit, right? Sometimes I'd be a lookout if
somebody was robbing someplace, or I'd scrounge up some food, boil up a stew
and sell it on cold days up north. All sortsa things. Did a few years for
petty theft - shoplifting, y'know? Probably woulda gone back in if the aliens
hadn't got me first."

"How did that happen?"

"I was down on the border, helping this guy I'd met through a friend. He was
helping the Mexicans, you know? They'd pay him, he'd get them up here, they'd
get in this van I was driving and I'd get them up to LA. I figured it was a
win-win, y'know? If we managed it, I got my cut of what they'd paid him, if
not then I'd be back inside."

"You wanted to go back to prison?"

"Hell yeah! Two hots and a cot, y'know? Anyway, I was bouncing my ass off all
over the desert in the middle of the night driving this piece of shit Transit
when the engine cut out on me. Now I mean, I know engines, done some work
fixing cars to get by in my time, and I never had an engine just stop on me
like that. It just went _pop_ and it was like I'd taken the key out. So, I
stopped, got out, had a look, I'm still staring at what looks like a pristine-
ass engine when somebody turned on the lights. I looked up and… well, that's
all she wrote for me. Next time I was myself again would be today."

"Can you remember what you - what the biodrone did? What Six did?"

"Shit, Six was fine. He just wanted to get out and explore, you know? Find out
what a burger tasted like, that kind of thing. But that other one, man. He
ordered the drone to go kill that poor Boone lady, and I still remember that,
clear as day. Like he was ordering it to take out the goddamn trash."

"How did the biodrone escape the scene? The only footage we have shows you -
shows _it_ standing there in one frame and gone the next."

"What, you've not figured that part out yet?"

"We have our suspicions."

"Like what?"

Carl cocked his head slightly, then said, carefully. "Personally, I think they
have a spaceship on Earth."

Hugh nodded. "You're goddamn right they do."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 1w 2d AV**

**Capitol Station, orbiting Planet Garden.**

The assassin worked alone, always. Obviously, doing so increased some of the
risks of his vocation, but it also reduced some others. The trade had, for a
career of some twelve Human years, worked out in his favour, albeit with some
near misses.

His existence was known, among certain circles. His nature was not - a large
part of his success came from the fact that a prejudiced galaxy looked at his
species and saw only tiny, physically frail opportunistic cowards with big
brains. Whenever the identity of the assassin was speculated upon, the usual
assumptions were that he must be Chehnasho, or maybe Locayl, or even Celzi.

Not Corti. Never Corti. Corti were overlooked, or rather looked at in the
wrong way. But a tiny, frail body was no limitation at all when you had access
to Directorate technology.

And so, one moment he was a medical technician. In the instant that nobody and
nothing looked at him, a simple change of which tool he was holding and
fiddling with turned him into an engineer, then a bureaucrat, or maybe a
diplomatic aide. Never anybody important - just another little grey body
padding about the station corridors, engrossed in some task that was obviously
much more important than whatever or whoever was around him.

It was critical that, on this job in particular, he should go undetected. He
had never been commissioned to silence a member of the Dominion Security
Council before. There would undoubtedly be repercussions, which he was keen to
avoid.

The caution cost him time, as he made entirely sure that the timing was
perfect, and that there was no possibility of anything going wrong. But time
was a plentiful luxury. Finally, satisfied that his preparations were as
comprehensive as was feasible, he put his plan into motion.

It was not a difficult plan. While the elevator control systems on Council
Station were as hack-proof as the very best minds in the Directorate could
conceive, they still had a few loopholes. Nothing that might deliver him
outside of his clearance level, but enough.

The one he used was a simple maintenance cycle, an unscheduled degauss of the
elevator's propulsion coils. That little trick earned him twelve seconds.
Twelve seconds in which, guided by an array of forcefields dazzling in their
subtlety, complexity and finesse, the emergency exit hatch was unsealed,
lifted out, he was lifted through, the hatch replaced and its seals re-
engaged. He barely glanced at them.

The spinal elevator shaft of the great station - the largest ever built - was
its own hazard course, absolutely not intended for hospitality. The elevators
were not bound to individual tracks, but switched constantly from one path to
another, flashing past their peers with millimeter clearances, guided by a
central routing system that handled thousands of such narrow-margin
trajectories per day, and had done so for years with a callous disregard for
the presence of anything within the transit shaft that did not belong there.

Technology again came to his rescue. The constant weave and dance, and
sometimes retreat, that kept the hurting cars from reducing him to a fine
organic cloud of red vapour, impeded his progress, but it did deliver him
safely to his destination, high on the outermost apex of one of the VIP
habitation clusters.

After that obstacle course, the door was child's play.

The Councilor's personal suite was stunning. It was a garden of a dozen
worlds, each a pleasing biome in a forcefield bottle, arranged both for
aesthetic delight, and ecological accuracy. Even the Assassin was awed,
granting himself a moment's pause to examine the delights on offer as he
stalked through the suite, quietly impressed by the subtle way in which the
apartment suite's necessities, luxuries and furniture were all hidden amongst
the assorted alien foliage.

"Hello."

The Assassin spun. Twin plasma bolts, weapons that he could never have fired
if not for his exoskeleton harness and its powerful tuned shields, would have
reduced the target to a steaming mess, had he actually been present. Instead,
they shattered the blue haze around a display and immolated something like a
tree, which made a distressed hooting sound as it deflated amid the flames.

On their way, they had passed through a hologram of the target.

"I apologise for my absence, but I would prefer not to be murdered today." the
apparition continued. "Nor on any other day, for that matter. I do apologise
for killing you this way. I don't suppose it shall be very pleasant." earnest
contrition described a glowing puce stripe down his flank.

The Assassin looked wildly around, immediately on his guard. Was that the
whine of hunter-killer drones? No, just the tree, keening its last. His chest
felt tight, despite the absence of any apparent violence. No turrets unfolded
from the floors, no armed Annebenellin shock troopers stormed him.

He coughed. Or tried to. The result was much more like a violent wheeze.
Breathing really had become very difficult. He coughed again, and this time
blood spurted from his nostrils, joining the thin trickle that had begun to
stain the corners of his eyes.

"I wish I could send you alive back to your employers with a warning to leave
me alone, but your reputation precedes you, you see." the holographic ghost of
Councillor Vedreg continued. "You are very well known for your tenacity, and
for seeing the job through. All of which left me feeling rather like I had no
other choice."

"H…. -ow…?" The assassin croaked, desperately querying the pseudosentient
medical pack he carried for anything that resembled a solution. He didn't
expect an answer from the hologram of his target, but he received one
nonetheless. whether Vedreg had thought to include it, or programmed a simple
response in was unclear.

"The hardest and most dangerous part was in configuring the containment field
to collapse in the same circumstances that triggered this recording, you see.
One slip, and I would have finished as you are now."

The assassin's black-edged vision settled on the one particular plant, right
in the middle of the suite, that no longer had a field around it. Somehow, he
knew exactly which planet this specimen had come from.

"It's called a Mountain Cedar if you're interested. It is quite possibly the
deadliest plant in the galaxy. Humans, apparently, like the smell. But even
they can suffer some quite severe allergic reactions to its pollen. I imagine
it is a terrible way to go but, well. I had nothing else to hand. I am sorry."

The assassin was far beyond the capacity to answer.

An hour later, in response to Vedreg's programming, the suite resurrected the
containment field around the Terran plants and initiated a maximum-threat
biohazard cleanup protocol. Only after the gardens were absolutely guaranteed
to be clean of every last pollen grain was station security finally alerted.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 1w 4d AV**

**Freelance vessel** **_"Sanctuary"_**

**Julian Etsicitty**

_♫♪I was caught, in the middle of a railroad track! (THUNDER!)♫♪_

There was a lot of welding to do. Julian had taken a couple of weeks learning
the skill down on Earth, grateful to be home, enjoying the place. He wasn't
sure what Kirk had been up to - personable as he was, the _Sanctuary'_s owner
and master kept his secrets and well, and was probably playing a game that he,
Julian, didn't know the rules to.

But he'd been there, ready to pick them up when San Diego had died.

♫♪_I looked around, and I knew there was no turning back! (THUNDER!)♪♫_

_Sanctuary_ had changed too. A lot of Kirk's old passengers were back on
board, people who had returned to Earth, learned how to be human again and
then… well. Felt the call. Fitter, better-fed and harder one and all, and more
driven.

They'd taken on guns and ammo, filled the jump array with floor mats for
physical training and martial arts when it wasn't in use. Some uniforms had
come aboard, taken a look around, and left only after leaving an extensive
list of recommended modifications.

Hence the welding. By the time they were done, the ship would be less elegant,
but much sturdier.

♪_My mind raced, and I thought: what could I do? (THUNDER!) and I knew there
was no help, no help from you! (THUNDER!)♫_

Between the deafening music and his welding mask, he neither saw nor heard the
workshop door open, and he was so focused on getting the weld right that he
didn't feel the gravity automatically adjust itself to galactic standard. He
damn near jumped out of his skin when he was tapped on the shoulder.

♫_Sound of the drums! beating in my heart!♪_

Kirk waved expressively at him with his two smaller arms, clamping the larger
ones over his ears and shouting, though unable to summon the volume to compete
with Angus Young.

Julian tried to order the room to turn the music off, but apparently it
couldn't hear him either. He fished in his pocket for the remote control he'd
built.

♪♫_The thunder of guns! (SLAM!) tore me apart! you've been…♪♫_

"What's up?" He asked, as Kirk relaxed in the silence.

"That can't be good for your hearing."

"It's a classic!"

Kirk issued a strange sort of whickering sound - the Rrrrtktktkp'ch version of
a derisive snort. "Julian, 'classic' would be Vivaldi, or Sibelius."

"That's classic**_al_**. What's up, anyway?"

"I was just asking you to turn it down. I could hear it all the way from the
flight deck."

"Ah…" Julian grimaced. He was still adjusting to having other people around
him after years of isolation, and loud music was a luxury he'd gone without
for too long. "Sorry."

"Yeah, but I was enjoying it…"

The new voice belonged to Allison. While an entertainment binge on Earth (and
getting laid several times) had largely cured Julian of his awkwardness around
women, it threatened to come surging back whenever she entered the room.
"…It's good workout music." she explained, as Kirk turned his ungainly, lanky
frame to face her.

Julian Etsicitty, wilderness master and six-year survivor of the deadliest
planet in the known galaxy, awkwardly cleared his throat and turned his
attention back to the bulkhead reinforcement he had been welding, because the
alternative was to be distracted by the enticing way Allison's sweat was
making her sports shirt adhere to her skin and soaking her blonde ponytail.

Focusing on that turned out to be even harder when she poked her head over his
shoulder, radiating heat and a clean, physical scent. "Good weld."

"Thanks." he commented, for lack of something better to say. "I… Didn't know
you knew welding."

"I don't." she murmured, straight in his ear, and then headed back through to
the gym, glancing back to make sure he was admiring the yoga-pants-enhanced
view.

"Jeez." Julian muttered, wiping his forehead, then followed it with "Oh shut
up."

This was in response to Kirk making an amused noise.

"What?" the alien asked, innocently. He leaned in close to inspect the weld
himself.

"Go ahead and say it."

Kirk shook his mane. "No thanks, I've watched too much TV to fall into that
cliched old trope. 'Alien comments on human romance and sexuality'? Not I."

He bared his teeth in a poor imitation of a smile. "I'm still allowed to find
it funny though."

Julian picked up the welder, and after both he and Kirk had protected their
eyes, resumed his work. "I'm not going for it."

"Oh?"

"She'll say no. I know why she's doing this, she likes to be looked at, she
likes the power of lust. The second she puts out, we're not playing that game
no more. And she knows I'm the easiest mark on this ship."

"I see."

"Sure you do."

"I do. You're no idiot, Julian. You're one of the toughest and most
resourceful people I know. If I were in your position, I'd resent being
manipulated like that."

"…Yeah." Julian didn't admit to just how accurate Kirk's candid appraisal
really was. "Makes me feel like a dumbass, though. Bombfruit? No problem.
Mangrabber plants? Fought them back for three days straight with a machete and
fire. Hellbirds? Ate them for lunch. I even killed a Minizilla once. Cool,
calm and sensible the whole time. Show me a nice ass though and suddenly I'm a
school kid again."

"It is an exceptional ass, though." Kirk said, finally drawing a laugh from
him.

"How would you know?" he chuckled. "She's got a third as many legs as you're
attracted to."

"Oh, I can still be an… academic expert on the subject." Kirk said. "Speaking
as an anthropologist."

Julian grunted, and raised his mask to examine his handiwork. "Hey, four more
of those and we'll be able to put the pressure door in."

"I still don't see why you all insisted on them." Kirk grumbled. "What's the
point in having internal pressure control forcefields if we rely on thick
steel eyesores instead?"

"What's the failure point on that giant power core you've got back there? And
what happens when the power goes? What happens if we get EMP'd? I'm less
interested in keeping the ship pretty than keeping air in my lungs."

Kirk waved an irritable forelimb. "Yes, yes, we've gone over all those
arguments." he groused. "I swear, your species is paranoid."

Julian just raised an eyebrow at him "Deathworlders."

"…Right. Yes."

"Where are we going, anyway?"

"Izbrk."

"Again?" Julian put his welding torch down. "I thought they were pretty clear
about not wanting to see any more humans ever again after the… well, the bank
robberies, the murders and the Exoss massacre."

"Not Irbzrk. Izbrk." Kirk said, as if that clarified things. "It's a city on
Ikbrzk."

Julian pinched the bridge of his nose "Kirk…" he began to complain.

Kirk snorted, a proper nostril-flapping equine snort. "As I recall, your home
nation contains New York state, which is not to be confused with New York
city, or Newark." he pointed out.

Julian paused. "…yeah, okay. So this… Ikbrzk?"

"Well done."

"It's a planet?"

"A barren one, yes. But the richest source of rare earth elements in Domain
space."

"So what's there besides mines?"

"Weaker sensors, a smaller garrison, lighter security… and a population of
underpaid, hardworking civilians with an insatiable appetite for entertainment
which their employers don't provide."

Julian nodded his understanding. "So it's a black market hub."

"Nearly as much so as Perfection." Kirk agreed. "And less well-known, which
makes it an attractive route for smuggling the especially sensitive goods. But
that's not why we're going there."

"Do tell."

"An old and dear friend of mine asked me to meet him there…"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha, Planet Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**Ava Rios**

"Alright, looks like that's our time for today."

Lessons were a simple affair. It was very different to school as Ava knew the
term - there being only a small handful of children and teenagers, there was
no point segregating everybody by age, or even in holding formal classes. It
was more like dedicated study time, with their teacher - Miss Olmstead - not
giving a lesson but instead flitting from student to student, by turns helping
with basic addition, biology, simple reading comprehension, physics, geometry,
tying shoes and gently reminding the older ones to refocus on their work.

As much as it suited her, Ava still felt that same relief and freedom when the
end of lessons for the day came around. As pleasant, personal and liberated as
Folctha's school might be, it was still school, and that meant not getting to
enjoy the colony's perfect spring weather.

Sara was bouncing by her desk before Ava and Adam had even finished packing
up. Ava rolled her eyes, suppressing a smile. "Do I get to know what the
surprise is _now_, Sara?" She asked.

Sara had been not so much hinting at a surprise as outright mentioning it at
every opportunity for three days.

"Mum and Dad said I can drive the mule this weekend!" Sara exploded, bouncing
on her toes. "Kieron, Jack, Lizzie and I were gonna go down to the lake and go
swimming! It's really cool down there, the water's so clear, you can see the
crashed spaceships on the bottom! You wanna come?"

It sounded amazing - Ava had been on the swim team in her high school, and she
realised how much she missed it. "That sounds… great! If only I had a
swimsuit."

This seemed to nonplus Sara. "What d'you need a swimsuit for?" she asked.

"What do I…? Sara, what else will I wear?"

"You don't _need_ to wear anything when you're swimming. What's the point?
You'd just have to bring wet clothes home."

"So… you're going to be swimming with Jack and Kieron and Lizzie?"

"Yeah."

"Naked."

"So?"

"Sara, that's _weird._"

She regretted saying it the second she did, but regretted it even more the
second it registered in Sara's brain. The younger girl looked like she'd been
slapped.

"That's NOT weird!" she snapped, eyes going red and watery. "_You're_ being
weird making such a big deal of it!" She spun and effected a perfect flouncing
exit.

"Sara…" Ava called after her, but to no avail. She turned to Adam. "That's
weird right? Swimming naked together is weird."

"Well …I, um…" Adam didn't get any further than that before being interrupted
by a giggle from Jessica Olmstead.

"That was what pretty much everyone else thought the first time." she said.
"but it's innocent. She really doesn't see why people have a problem with it."

"How can she not?" Ava asked.

Jessica giggled again. "I love Sara's parents, but it's a miracle that girl
didn't end up being called Nebula Moondance or something." she said. "She got
off lucky just being called Sara Honeydew."

Judging from her expectant smile, there was a joke there, which went straight
over Ava's head, and Adam's too judging from his expression. Jessica laughed
softly and shook her head at their blank faces.

"Let's just say they're… uninhibited." she said. "Yes, it makes the rest of us
a bit uncomfortable sometimes, but we discussed it at the Thing, and the
consensus was 'So long as it's harmless…'."

"Skinny dipping always sounded like fun to me." Adam said.

"_Adam!_" Ava protested.

"What? I'm just saying, if it's just good fun… maybe we shouldn't be so…" he
stopped himself. "I mean…"

"So… what, Adam?" Ava demanded. Unnoticed, Jessica grimaced to herself and
slipped away. "Shouldn't be so what?"

"…I was gonna say uptight. about it." He confessed.

_That_ hurt. And it made her mad, too. She poked him in the chest "You just
wanna see the other girls naked." she accused, hitting on the first thing that
came to mind to hurt him back.

He backed off a step, rubbing where she'd prodded him. "_What?!_ Ava, they're
kids, don't be weird!"

"_You're_ being weird!"

"I'm just saying it sounds like fun!"

She snarled a disgusted noise, spun and walked away from him. "Whatever. Go
run to daddy for advice, like always."

He shouted after her: _"What the hell's my dad got to do with anything?"_

She paused at the door just long enough to yell "**_At least you still have
one!"_**, and then slammed it behind her, storming off into the forest, away
from anyone and everyone.

She paused once she was certain he wasn't following, and leaned against a
tree, arms folded over her tummy. The alien bark was smooth and crackled
softly as she slid down, until she was sitting in a little ball among the
roots, wrapped up in being equally angry at Adam, herself and the universe,
and cried.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha, Cimbrean Colony**

**Captain Owen Powell**

"I don't fookin' care if they ARE small! This is a military base, and that
means the kids. stay. OUT of it. Or are you too fookin' incompetent to do your
job as a fookin' sentry?"

The soldier he was chewing out knew better than to respond, and just stood and
took it. He earned points for that at least. Powell cooled down slightly.

"Have you got an explanation for me, Corporal?"

"Sir. Three of them distracted me while the fourth snuck past behind me. I
take full responsibility."

"Noted, and accepted. We're short-handed since the recall. That's a reason to
be _extra_ vigilant. Am I clear?"

"Yes Captain!"

"You're fookin' right I am. This is a serious incident which means it's
getting written up, but that's all I can be arsed to do, _this_ time. See to
it there isn't a next time. Dismissed."

The man saluted and left, clearly relieved. As he left, he was replaced by
Lieutenant Ross.

Since the colony had been handed over formally to the British government, the
Americans, Canadians, Aussies and other allied soldiers had all been recalled,
replaced with a platoon from the British Army. They were good lads, but
universally young and inexperienced, and there weren't quite enough of them.
Most of the special forces had also been recalled, leaving only Powell and his
hand-picked squad, including Legsy and Ross.

"Found the ankle-biters yet?" He asked.

"Yes sir. They owned up - there's only four kids in town in that age range
anyway."

"I want a word with them, and their parents."

"The weekly Thing's tomorrow, sir." Ross pointed out. "Raising it there might
get the message across better."

"…aye. Good shout. What's the news?"

Ross handed over some packages. "Dispatches and your comfort package, Sitrep
on the San Diego investigation, and a… strategic report on Nervejam weaponry."

"Lovely. Summarize that one for me." Powell said, accepting the rest of his
mail. Ross nodded and flipped through the file, mumbling slightly to himself
as he skimmed through to the summary.

"Hmmm… _exhaustive testing…. -thing conclusive… remain- '_ At this point, the
operating principles of this weapon system remain unknown and impossible to
duplicate with Terran technology'… _mumble… absence of… token resistance
only…_ uh, 'given the above, development of effective protection has not been
accomplished, with even total sensory isolation from the effect offering no
more than a reduction in its effectiveness.'…_mumble, acute cerebral……
haemorrhage… wow. okay._ 'While the weapon's effects are highly lethal at
their maximum effect, probable long-term consequences of nervejam trauma
includes an increased stochastic probability of long-term complications
including: Schizophrenia, paranoid delusions, dissociative identity disorder,
motor nerve palsy, epilepsy and stroke."

"Jesus fookin' Christ." Powell muttered.

Ross cleared his throat. "'At present, the only viable countermeasure to this
weaponry in a tactical situation is destruction of the grenade if possible,
and prioritizing the termination of any hostile unit which appears to be
deploying them. Engage at long range only."

"Nothing we couldn't figure out for ourselves then." Powell commented.
"Fookin' useful, that."

"Yes, sir."

The captain sighed. "Alright, spread that tactical advice to the lads, along
with the news about there being no protection from the bloody things. _Don't_
include the bit about the long-term complications."

"Anything else, sir?" Ross asked, indicating the dispatches.

"Nowt to act on. Today's Tuesday?"

"Yes sir. Militia training today. Both those kids from San Diego signed up.
Our new police chief's boy and his missus."

"Good. Those two looked young and fit, and Ares says his lad knows his way
round a pistol at least. And if the boy's going into civilian policing, we're
going to want him to know how to fight."

"Think you might swing by later to inspect the training, sir?"

"Aye, think I just might. Watching Legsy in teacher mode is always good for a
fookin' laugh."

**Date Point 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Ceres Base, Sol**

**Drew Cavendish**

"And I'm telling you you're bloody paranoid, mate!"

"Drew." Cavendish was a picture of zen calm, but he was slowly starting to
lose his cool with his friend. "Have you SEEN the figures?"

"We always knew this was going to be a dangerous job, Cavvo."

"And I'm asking you mate, have you _seen_ the figures. Did you actually look
at them?"

Drew Martin nodded. "Of course I bloody did! I know I lair it up mate, but if
my site leader hands me a report marked "Important" and fucking "safety
incident statistics" then I fucking read it! Cover to cover! Twice!"

"Good, then you can read this one, too."

Drew handed it over. Technically, Ceres Base was a completely digital office,
because ink and paper were expensive to bring up from Earth, whereas between
the nuclear reactor and the solar collection fields, electrons were all but
free.

He'd paid for the hard copy version of the report out of his own pocket,
wanting to make a statement. Nothing got the point across quite like
physically handing over a two-inch manilla folder.

"The fuck is this?" Drew M asked, dropping it on his desk and opening it.

"Every significant, serious and critical incident report for the whole of
Ceres Base since the launch of Hephaestus One." Cavendish told him.
"Everything from the dodgy landing of the IBM-S module and the relocation of
the CHM, the suit HDF emitter problems, the airlock seals blowing, the
collector array hiccups, that godawful mess in the refinery, right up to the
power surge down in the canteen this morning." as Martin opened the folder and
started reading down the summary sheets at the front, he added. "I've also got
personal testimonies, including one from Doctor Gunawardena saying that in his
considered medical opinion, the only reason we've not had any deaths yet is
divine intervention."

"I put it down to good engineering." Drew M muttered as he read.

"You and me both, mate. If everything around here wasn't triple redundant,
backed up, safety-checked and reinforced to hell and gone…"

Drew M flipped the sheet over, and muttered "_Strewth…_" upon seeing six more
pages of summaries waiting for him, in densely packed ten-point Times New
Roman. "Shit, is there anything that HASN'T gone wrong up here?"

"The IBM Z-series mainframes." Cavendish said, promptly. "They're the notable
exception. If you don't count their module landing wrong in the first place,
the IBM labs and datacenter are the the only things that haven't suffered
failures at or near the maximum projections."

"So, wait, all this is in range?"

"It's worst-case-scenario stuff, but…" Cavendish sighed through his teeth and
turned his head away. "Okay, admittedly, yes. It's on the extremely
pessimistic end of our projected range, but it's still in range. Barely."

"If it's in range…"

"Don't say it, Drew. I'm not paranoid, I'm telling you, I think we have a
saboteur on board."

"If we do, he's a drongo. Who sabotages the place while being careful not to
peek outside of what we've prepared for? Cavvo mate, face it, you were just
expecting things to go better."

"I was." Drew admitted. "Because it SHOULD be."

Drew M fished in his pocket and aimed a green laser dot at one of the many
documents tacked to his office wall. "It SHOULD be inside that range." he
emphasized. "And it is."

"Barely. And we should be improving as we put things into place. We should be
seeing patterns that we can compensate for. Instead it's… bloody everything!
Anything can go wrong!"

"Bloody right mate. Murphy in action."

Cavendish sighed. "You're going to say I'm paranoid again, aren't you."

"Yeah, nah. I'm taking this seriously Cavvo, my right hand to God on that. We
all are. But we can't jump straight to sabotage."

"Well, I hope it's not. Or if it is that I talk you round before somebody
dies." He stuck out a hand. Drew M grabbed it, hoisted himself upright and
slapped his spare arm around his shoulders in a brief, masculine hug.

"Come on mate, let's hit the Speakeasy." he said.

**Date Point 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha colony, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**Adam Ares**

"A black belt in Karate? Fuckin' 'ell! Wax on, wax off!"

The class laughed as Legsy pantomimed the exaggerated arm-waving motion and an
all-too-serious expression. Adam laughed too, glad for the entertaining
distraction, stopping him from going over and over the argument with Ava in
his head.

He hoped she was okay.

Legsy sobered. "Fuckin' seriously then mate, come 'ere and come at me." he
said, leaning on his back foot and gesturing towards himself, nonchalantly.

"Uh…" the black belt stepped forward and took his guard. Legsy flashed forward
with alarming speed for a man of his size. The black belt put up a few seconds
of desperate resistance, but he fell flat on his back in the dirt in short
order with Legsy's "knife" \- a length of wooden dowel - pressed to his
throat.

"None of that bowing and scraping bullshit!" the huge Welshman informed them,
as he stood up. "Karate is a _sport._ You lot are here to learn how to
**fight** and fighting means killing the other cunt before he kills you, not
bowing and scoring points, alright?" He helped the hapless student up. "How
many times did I stab him there, anyone see?"

"Three… no, four." Adam said, raising his hand.

"Good boy!" Legsy gave him a thumbs up. He turned to the black belt. "You're
dead, mate. Which means you get to be my training dummy for the day."

This drew general laughter as the unfortunate man bravely lined up for
demonstration. Legsy chuckled and waved a hand.

"Relax pal, I'm taking the piss. Now, we're training for ET combat here, which
is a bit different to fighting another human. The good news is, it's a lot
fuckin' easier. ETs are slower, weaker, squishier, can't see, hear or even
smell as well as we do. All of these give you a huge advantage. The bad news
is, they've got some tricks and technology up their sleeves that we don't. And
THIS bad boy is human enemy number one."

Several people recoiled as the holographic projector - courtesy of Scotch
Creek and the same technology that powered the colony's camouflage field -
snapped on, and a full-sized Hunter fidgeted and glared at them.

It was truly hideous, an amalgam of several human nightmares, from its vaguely
arachnoid physique and slick pale skin, to the way that skin inflamed and
exuded pus around the implants that violated its limbs, torso and face. The
face itself was an otherwise featureless ovoid full of far too many steak-
knife teeth and an odd number of eyes, all of which blinked often and alone,
without apparent sequence.

The animation of the simulation was uncanny - it shifted its weight
constantly, looking around, tasting the air with its tongue, which was an
unnatural, startling ice blue, and tapered to a feathered end.

Legsy surprised them by slapping the projection. It was the product of
forcefield technology after all, and in fact creating a solid surface was
easier than creating a visible one.

"Ugly cunt, in'he?" He commented, cheerfully. "Well, it gets better. There's a
fleet of these fuckers lurking right over our head right now. They've been
here since we went public. Only thing holdin' them back is our system
forcefield… and that's true for Earth too, just so you know. THESE bastards,
are why the militia exists. Because if we have to fight these thing off, we
will."

He turned toward the projection. "There's not a lot to go on about how these
things live. What we know is, they have leaders, and followers. Like a wolf
pack - there's the Alphas, and the bottom of the pile, and everything in
between. We know they'll eat any thinkin' being in the skies, man woman or
child. We know that for some reason they REALLY don't like us, and are on a
crusade to wipe us the fuck out right now. Some poor bastard got killed just
last week, catching an escape pod here - the Hunters got them."

"Latest news is, they've started using special weapons just to stop us. Heavy
pulse guns like getting smashed with a hammer. Plasma guns that'll set you on
fire. Nervejam grenade launchers that'll have you dead an' twitching before
you even know they've opened fire. Fusion claws that'll have your arm off like
a fuckin' lightsaber. These things right here, are the nastiest threat we
face, by a mile."

He turned back towards the by now thoroughly intimidated class, and gave them
that winning smile. "And they're still stupidly fuckin' easy to kill." He
said. "Wanna learn how?"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk ("Kirk")**

Kirk could hold his own in a fight and then some. After Kevin Jenkins, he was
the being who had scored the second most Hunter kills during the raid on
"Outlook on Forever". He'd kept to his training throughout his political
career and his new vocation as an agent of the human race, and felt pretty
confident that his skills were now at the sharpest they had ever been.

It gave him a certain sense of assuredness and confidence as he picked his way
carefully through the Izbrk street market, but that sense was hugely
reinforced by the fact that Julian was in the crowd, following him.

It was amazing. Humans stood out in the crowd, despite their smallness. There
was just something about the way they moved, looked around, held themselves…
everything about a human was subconsciously predatory, and the herbivorous
species of the galaxy gave them a wide berth as a result. Even wider, among
those who had heard even a fraction of the new-found Deathworlders' abilities
and reputation.

But Julian could vanish. It was disconcerting. He would talk with Kirk, Kirk
would look away, and when he looked back, there Julian wasn't. But if he spoke
to him over the silent comms implant in his head, the Deathworlder would be at
his side within seconds, never approaching from an expected angle, always…
silent. It sent instinctive flight signals right through the ancient, animal
parts of Kirk's brain, which he had to override by reminding himself that
Julian was his friend and protector.

Pleasingly, it even made Allison jump. In fact, he wondered if Julian was
doing it specifically to get back at her for her teasing.

"Jeeeez!" she hissed, for the third time as she turned and found him walking
casually alongside her. "Will you stop that?!"

Several beings glanced at her, alarmed by a raised human voice, then looked
away aware that taking too much notice of the business of others was
potentially serious trouble. Oddly, they seemed to ignore Julian.

"Not joking this time." he said. "We're being tailed. Don't look."

Kirk and Allison exchanged a glance. "Tailed?" Kirk asked.

"Chehnasho. Three in the main group, one shadowing them. They're all wearing
cloaks, but I saw combat harnesses underneath. Looked like a kind of uniform:
White, with three lines forming a triangle on them."

"Is their leader female?" Kirk asked.

"I think so, yes. She has a prosthetic arm."

"Zokrup. A mercenary leader, almost as famous as Five-Skulls Zripob himself,
and with good reason."

"Well, they've got some of those new jolt guns."

"Options?"

"Bear with me." Julian stepped aside as a stevedore drone grumbled past
carrying a crate of some kind, and disappeared.

"Fuck's sake." Allison complained. "Where are you, you son of a bitch?"

"Right here." He replied, walking past her in the opposite direction.

"JEEZ!"

Julian kept going, vocalizing quietly over their private communications.
"_Quietly please. There's a left turn up ahead into what smells like a spice
market. Kirk, There's a vizkittik at the second stall selling, and I'm quoting
here, 'The oldest and slimiest Zrrks in the Expanse'._"

"Sounds nice, I could go for a really ancient Zrrk right now."

Allison muttered something that Kirk suspected might have been a complaint
about how other species considered _humans_ to be the strange ones. Julian
just kept talking. "_Good. Stop off and buy one, haggle with the merchant.
What they do next should tell us what they want. Allison, just like I showed
you in training, alright?_"

"Sure." she muttered.

"_If they make a move, we'll let you talk for a minute, see what they want. If
they're unfriendly, then we take out the three spares and maybe this Zokrup
can tell us something."_

"Nonlethal if you can, please." Kirk said. "The Chehnasho Syndicates tend to
take a dim view of… _unauthorized_ violence in their territory."

"_You got it, boss. Enjoy your nice, rancid, dripping Zrrk._"

Allison pulled a face, which only creased up further as they got closer to the
Zrrk vendor. "Dear _God._" she complained.

"_Fragrant, ain't they?"_

"Delicious." Kirk commented. "Good meeting, cousin! These smell as good as
advertised."

"Ah, it's an old family secret. All in the blackrot culture." the vendor
replied happily, launching into the patter that was shared by merchants the
galaxy over. "My father always said the batch wasn't ready until half of it
had liquified… um, is that a human? Only my translator says she looks very
ill, and I heard they carry dangerous diseases."

"They have sensitive noses and for some reason Zrrk smells repulsive to them."
Kirk explained. "Don't worry, she has a suppression implant."

"_Zrrk_ smells repulsive to them? I heard humans were strange but… I, ah…" The
vendor faltered as Allison (who had gone a very strange colour) shot him the
kind of murderous glare that only a truly irate Deathworlder could, but he
rallied admirably. "Three for the price of two, and I'll throw in a tzk'zr
frond."

"I have a better offer."

The new voice belonged to, sure enough, Zokrup, who showed something to the
vendor as her two associates levelled shock guns at Allison. "You go on a
break and forget you spoke to this "cousin" of yours." she stated. The vendor
glanced back and forth twice, then fled, as did several others nearby.

"One-Shot Zokrup." Kirk said, an admirable picture of calm for somebody
addressing a feared mercenary. "I'm flattered. Somebody must think very highly
of me to decide that I'm worth _your_ time."

"Compliments, Councillor A'ktnnzzik'tk? If I didn't know better I'd say that
you were stupid enough to try and talk me out of my contract."

"A good thing you know better, then. I'm well aware that you don't betray your
employers."

Zokrup blinked slowly and visibly, the Chehnasho equivalent of rolling her
eyes. "So why the clumsy attempt at sweet-talking me?"

"I'm not allowed to be polite? Incidentally, is this a murder, or just an
abduction?"

"Oh, it's an abduction. For now."

"_Taking out the tail. Get them."_

"Thank you." Kirk said to Zokrup and Julian both.

He drew and fired. The Chehnasho were all focused on Allison, who threw
herself aside and rolled as she landed, fetching up behind a stall which
grounded their shock-gun bolts, and by the time they realised that in fact
Kirk himself was the more serious threat, two of them were down with their
limbs badly broken under the hammer-blows of his pulse pistols, and his
cybernetic arm had whipped up and extended the fusion blade hidden within it.
The air seethed where the blade had slipped right through Zokrup's personal
shield and was now warring with the forcefield boundary. Greasy Chehnasho
sweat erupted all over her face at the sight of a lethally sharp point held
perfectly steady only an inch away from what passed for her nose.

Having a total of four arms had some major advantages. Among them was the
ability to hold four weapons.

"Bad move, Councillor." Zokrup spat, even as she dropped her own weapon.

"If you're referring to the rest of your party, my own backup has taken care
of that." Kirk said. Years of politics had schooled him in the art of
ambiguity, never committing to specific numbers when vagueness could hint at
accuracy where precision might be completely wrong.

"'Fraid I used a little too much force, there." Julian added, arriving right
next to the already nervous Zokrup and nearly causing her to impale herself on
Kirk's blade as she started. "You guys _really_ break easily."

Kirk saw in the way Zokrup's shoulders sagged that they'd definitely scored a
hit.

"Allison?"

She emerged from behind the stall, smoothing her hair down. Static electricity
was holding it out away from her head, and crackling viciously as she tried to
tidy herself up. "Are bad hair days gonna be a feature of decoy duty?" she
asked.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Ceres Base, Sol**

**Drew Cavendish**

The largest part of excavating a giant hole in the ice, as with excavating a
giant hole anywhere, was moving all of the material _out_ of the hole. In low
gravity, the job came with a whole mess of additional challenges. All of their
gear had been designed and built in Earth's gravity, for the tolerances it
imposed. Jury-rigged engineering solutions had turned some of those limits on
their heads - the sturdy steel arms of the excavators could now wield truly
immense buckets and - so long as they moved carefully and slowly to account
for the fact that the forces imposed by mass hadn't changed - were clearing
the spoil much faster than would have been possible on Earth.

Piloting those excavators while wearing a vacuum hardsuit was another matter
entirely, and usually fell to Tracy Monroe, the mining team's petite "girly
girl" who seemed to take a positive delight in being the one who got to play
with the big manly toys while all the roughneck males were stuck holding the
surveying equipment and hauling the crates of explosives. Her helmet decal was
a stylized Norma Jean, manning an enormous bulldozer and grinning wildly
inside her helmet.

"_Hey, boss?_" she called out as Drew walked past her cabin with the spray
paint for marking drill points for the explosives.

"Yeah?"

"_Why wasn't the geologist hungry?_"

Drew just rolled his eyes inside his helmet. "Do tell."

"_He'd lost his Apatite._"

The open channel filled with groans and snorts of amusement.

Somebody else piped up: "_Hey Marilyn. You know any jokes about Sodium?"_

_"…Na."_ Drew could HEAR the gleeful grin both of the jokers wore after the
setup was received.

"Jesus Christ…" he muttered.

_"My sediments exactly…"_

That one earned the culprit - an American coal miner whose racy "fallen angel"
decal had earned him the nickname "wings" \- a chorus of amused condemnation,
and he took a bow, a difficult task in the rigid hardsuit.

It saved his life.

There was a flash of light, and a _thump_, felt through the soles of the feet,
as something bright streaked down out of the interplanetary dark and carved a
trench in the dig site behind Wings. To a man, the team turned away and
cowered, protecting their faceplates against shrapnel. Drew felt something
glance off his upper arm with a force that knocked him off his feet. He landed
gently in the tiny gravity of Ceres' surface, and hauled himself upright,
hollering into the open channel.

"Everyone okay? Check in!" He glanced at the impact site on his upper arm. The
impact had dented one of the rigid plates rather than hitting a joint, so the
worst damage was some missing paint, a starburst of ugly grey between all the
scuffed yellow and black.

"_Jesusfuckshitohmygodfuck fuck fuck…_"

"Wings! Check in!"

"_I'm gonna throw up, fuck…_"

Drew looked up. The impact had flung Wings high into, for lack of a better
term, the air and he was tumbling wildly, suit bubbled inside the high-
visibility yellow glow of his emergency forcefield. "Don't you fucking dare,
mate. Just like we practiced, focus on your heads-up display! You remember!"

"_Yeah… yeah, focus on the HUD… deep breaths…._" With his mind snapped onto
what he could do to help himself, Wings showed why he was on the team by
rapidly getting himself under control, both mentally and physically. A few
precisely-timed puffs of propellant from his SAFER and his spin was corrected.

"Get yourself indoors mate." Drew ordered him.

"_Way ahead of you, chief."_

"Everyone else okay?" He asked. The request was redundant. His own HUD showed
summarized information from all of the team members: anyone with a breach, a
popped field or worrying vital signs would have been highlighted in red, but
the very safety protocols that he himself had written called for everyone to
check themselves and their work buddies. Redundancy saved lives.

It took them only seconds to check in, confirm that they were all intact and
well, and could see no alarming signs of damage on any of their fellows. He
ordered the team indoors anyway. Nobody knew whether a damaged suit might blow
after staying sealed for a few minutes, but he didn't feel like finding out.

With his immediate duties taken care of, the next step was a sitrep.

"Tower" he called, on the operations channel. "This is Dig One Foreman. What
the _fuck?!"_

"_Uh, Dig One, serious incident up here, all radio traffic is being recorded.
Uh, Over."_ The operator's "over" was obsolete thanks to the radio squelch,
but the man was clearly being on his absolute best behavior for the record.
Drew knew he'd been unprofessional with his own outburst, but the Adrenaline
was making it hard to keep a calm and composed outlook.

"No shit it's a 'serious incident', we nearly lost a man down here!" he
exclaimed. "What the hell hit us?"

"_Uh, we're still determining that, Dig One, over."_

"Well while you're determining it, this Dig's closed on my orders. We're
heading inside for a full inspection, we've got suit damage out here."

_"Uh… roger that, uh, Dig One. I have you, uh, coming in._" the radio
squelched, then squelched again. "_Uh, over."_

The place must have been a madhouse. Drew knew that the traffic operators were
cool under even the most intense pressure, so for one of them to be so
obviously flustered was worrying. "Keep me informed, Tower. Dig One Foreman
out."

He was last into the triple-door airlock, and it was only once they were
safely in the mining suit workshop, behind the base's triple-skin hull and
thick concrete outer wall, that he allowed himself to relax and authorize the
suitcrack.

Wings' suit was ruined, the rear of it torn up and peeled open by flying
shards of steel-hard ice. The man himself was badly hurt too, though sheer
adrenaline had kept him from realizing the fact - bloody skin was visible at
the bottom of some of the craters and gouges. They cut him out of it as their
first order of business, staunching the bleeding as best they could until the
medics arrived and carried him away.

Drew M stood aside to let them pass as he entered. His perpetual smile and the
amused creasing around his eyes were both gone. As much as his tanned skin
would allow, he looked pale, unwell, and anxious.

"Strewth." he commented, proving that there were some things that no amount of
stress could drive out of him.

"Yyyyep." Cavendish replied.

"The fuck happened, mate?"

"Ask those useless twats up in the tower." Drew C told him, turning around to
start removing his own suit.

"Yeah, they're about as useful as an ashtray on- JESUS FUCK! Cavvo, have you
seen the back of your head?"

Usually, this impossible query would have earned a sarcastic retort and some
friendly insults. Instead, Drew paused, then unlatched his helmet seals and
lifted it off.

There was a triangular shard of ice the size of a credit card lodged in the
back of his helmet, smack in the middle of the thickest bit, and still just
penetrating through to open a hole to the interior. two inches to either side,
and it would have lobotomized him.

The whole crew gathered to gawk at it.

The reverent silence was finally broken by the phone. Drew M stabbed the
speaker button to answer it.

_"Workshop, Tower manager here."_ The speaker sounded much more composed than
whoever Drew had spoken to only minutes ago. _"You all okay down there?"_

Drew M glanced around then said. "One of our guys is getting sewn back
together, got major suit damage on a few others. The bloody hell happened?"

_"From what we can tell one of the ore-haul drones suffered some kind of
control software failure and fired its primaries on final approach rather than
retros."_

"How does that even happen?" asked O'Neill.

_"You got me there. The operator managed to force reset and restore control,
but most we could do by then was deflect it. Taking it the other way would
have crashed it into the base itself. Sorry for the scare."_

Cavendish spoke up so that the phone could hear him. "Sounds like the right
call to me." he said.

_"Yeah, well. We're starting a critical incident investigation up here.
Meeting's in three hours."_

"We'll be there." Both the Drews chorused. There was a click as the tower
manager put his end of the phone down. Drew M. turned to Cavendish, his jaw
set at a grim angle.

"Bloody oath mate, I'm never calling you paranoid again." He said.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk ("Kirk")**

Izbrk's architecture was a study in graceless off-white concrete cubes, ruddy
and austere in the sullen red light that penetrated the great forcefield dome.
That dome made Izbrk a city with breathable oxygenated air, rather than a sand
dune and a gasping death followed by erosion under the relentless sandstorms.
Still, somehow, the sand and dust crept in, and was swept into the cheaper,
poorer districts, where it accumulated until somebody was finally motivated to
organise a crusade against the cloying orange powder that rounded out every
corner and undulated across the road in the stiff artificial breeze of the
atmosphere systems.

For once, the human predilection for clothing seemed like a sensible
concession to hostile environments, rather than a strange cultural peccadillo.
The grit between Kirk's toes was chafing him terribly and he was devoting his
upper hands full time to shielding his eyes from airborne dust, whereas Julian
and Allison were both wearing high-laced tan boots sourced from army surplus
back on Earth, and seemed perfectly comfortable inside their hooded jackets.

It was only when he glanced sideways at them that he realised they were both
wearing dark glasses and some kind of flimsy white mask over their noses and
mouths. If not for the subtle differences in body shape between male and
female, he wouldn't have been able to tell them apart.

"Could I have of those?" He asked after his third sneezing and coughing fit.
Julian wordlessly produced one from the pocket on his leg and handed it over.

"You can try." he said.

Kirk held it over his nose and tried to inhale - it was difficult beyond
belief. "I think I'm using it wrong." he said.

"It's just a filter. You're using it right. People wear these things all the
time back on Earth."

Kirk tried again. It was like trying to inhale through a wall. "They do?"

"Sure. I hear you can get them with, like, animal faces and stuff printed on
over in China."

Kirk handed it back. "How can you breathe with this thing on?" he asked.

"Deathworlder."

"Of course. I… Oh. Good. This is the address."

"Your old friend likes the low life." Allison commented, surveying the street.
The nearest garbage pile contained pieces of automated garbage collection
drone.

"Far from it." Kirk told her. "But he's a practical being, behind the
diplomat."

"Diplomat?" Allison asked. "This guy's from your security council days?"

"Before that, even. He and I go all the way back to the _Outlook on Forever_,
long before it was famous… There. That's the building."

"You sure? It looks pretty much like all the others."

"It's the only one with a big enough door…"

They ducked through a swirl of dust and paused on the opposite side of the
street, where Julian looked up and tensed, ready to leap. A hand landed on his
shoulder.

"Nuh-uh, mister jungle. It's my turn to be the badass." Allison sprang up the
wall, grabbed a cutaway that was the closest thing to ornamentation on the
bland grey buildings, and swarmed up it in the low gravity. Kirk watched and
admired as she turned at the top and caught the bag that Julian threw her, an
item which he himself had trouble even lifting, but which the Deathworlder
lobbed up to roof height with one hand and only a small grunt of exertion.

"You sure we need that?" Julian asked him. "I tied that mercenary up pretty
good."

"Chehnasho mercenaries don't get a reputation like hers without being almost
as dangerous as you are." Kirk said. "She underestimated us last time. Let's
not make the same mistake."

"Makes sense."

"What did you bring for yourself?"

Julian just tugged his jacket aside - hanging from his belt was a knife as
long as one of Kirk's hands, and a hatchet. "Just the essentials." he said,
almost apologetically, as if he wasn't carrying weaponry that could bring down
a Vulza.

Knocking on the door produced no effect at first, but then, just as Julian was
about to ask if he was _sure_ they had the right place, the door - sealed
against the invasive dust - popped and freely swung inwards.

They stepped inside, and Julian closed the door behind them, squinting to see
in the darkness inside.

Something glowed an unwell yellow green in the far corner.

A voice spoke, quietly, as a heavy bulk around the glow shifted.
"_Ugnurukvuyung, uluhuguagnu-A'ktnnzzik'tk-lun_"

"Vedreg… Oh, Vedreg, what did they do to you?" Kirk rushed forward.

"_Luu?_" The big being chuffed deep in his chest, something similar to a
laugh. "_Muragvu-lon murgutu. Muu murguto muurulu-go._"

Vedreg shifted as the light came up, and Julian fought back a sudden heave in
his stomach. The Guvnurag's great shaggy scalp had been shaved, and terrible
ugly wounds covered it, the blood a startling blue where it soaked his
dressings.

"_You_ did this to _yourself?_" Kirk practically shrieked, clearly appalled.

"_Gno. Surunguvuranmurulgugwun-vatwag."_

There was a shocked silence during which Kirk only stared at his old friend,
and Vedreg turned his head away, flanks fading from shade to shade.

Julian eventually had to ask. "What's he say?"

Kirk looked up at him. "He said it was the only way to escape '_them_'."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha Colony, Cimbrean.**

**Captain Owen Powell**

"Captain!"

Ross was at a dead run from the direction of the sensor array. The cobbled-
together menagerie of technology that Adrian Saunders had installed had been
one of the first projects in the colony to be housed inside a permanent
structure, where it had been added to, patched into a series of monitors, and
generally turned into the beating nerve center of the colony's intelligence
network.

"There's a ship coming in sir. Five parsecs out. Looks like a freighter.
Straight at us."

He reversed course and matched the captain as Powell ran toward the sensor
array and landing platform, handing him an earpiece.

"Legsy! Drop it and gear up!" Powell yelled. Legsy had already paused his
demonstration as Ross approached. Now, he snapped out of jocular instructor
mode, and into hardened special-forces veteran, pausing only long enough to
acknowledge the order before heading to the armoury, long legs eating up the
turf.

Powell got his earpiece in and keyed it. "_Myrmidon_, ground has incoming
contact, looks like a civilian freighter. Can you see it?" He asked.

"_We do, Captain. It's still too far away to make out details, but it's big,
it's slow, and it's using a warp drive. Agree that it looks like a
freighter._"

"Have the Hunters seen it yet?"

"_There's been no increase of chatter on their channels to indicate as much.
If our best estimates as to their sensor range are accurate then we should see
them start to take notice in about five minutes."_

"Any way to contact them?"

_"Not until they're in range for the swarm to see them, and they're too slow
to escape. It'll be a massacre."_

Powell gritted his teeth. Watching the escape pod arrive a fortnight earlier
had been tough - that tiny vessel had stood no chance in hell, and had been
scooped wholesale into the belly of a swarm ship that had decloaked like a
breaching whale and swallowed the little craft whole.

He weighed his options. It _could_ be a trap. A stolen freighter full of the
toughest and best-armed Hunters that the Swarm of Swarms could muster. In
which case, any rescue mission would most likely end in death.

But what rescue mission could they realistically pull off anyway? Potent and
reinforced as they were, neither of the salvaged Hierarchy ships would stand
up to the hungry enemy at their gates.

He explained as much to Captain Manning as he entered the groundside CIC,
familiarizing himself at a glance with the latest updates as the sensors
teased new information from the unfolding situation

"_We may have a solution there._" Manning replied. "_It's a risk, but I'm not
watching a freighter full of people die on my watch._"

"Assuming it's not a trap." Powell reminded him.

_"I'm prepared to take that risk, captain."_

"I was hoping you'd say that. What's your solution?"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Allison Buehler**

"Hey, guys… that mercenary found us."

Allison settled in under the cloak that Julian had so thoughtfully packed into
the bag. It wasn't much - in fact it was little more than rough sacking, but
the colour blended with the concrete and dust of her rooftop perfectly. At
most, she would look like a tarpaulin left on the rooftop storage to keep the
dust out, here in a place where it never rained.

"_Reinforcements?"_ Julian asked her.

"I see five not counting that Zokrup bitch."

"_Only five? I smell a rat."_

Allison took that seriously. Julian was a blushing disaster with women, and a
heck of a lot of fun to tease and flirt with, but she also knew that he had an
unrivalled instinct for dangerous situations.

"I can't move without risking them spotting me." she said. "I can see the
whole road, but don't ask me about the alleys."

"_Leave that to me."_

"One jungle's pretty much like the other, huh?"

_"Better. No sticks to break, no snakes to step on."_

There was a pause. Allison had no idea how Julian had exited the building, but
she had every confidence that he had, somehow.

"_Okay…"_ he finally said, as the mercenaries continued down the street,
knocking on doors and intimidating the frightened, impoverished residents who
dared - or were coerced - to open up. "_Alleyways are empty. Weird."_

"They can't be that overconfident, can they?"

"_Not after what we did back in the market. Not if they've got a brain, and
I'm thinking Zokrup does."_

Allison watched the Chehnasho in question remove something slimy from a facial
orifice, inspect it, then eat it. "Oh yeah. She's a shoo-in for Mensa."

_"… oh shit. Stay down."_

Allison did so, burrowing back from the edge and down under her cloak. After a
second or two, her ears caught what Julian had heard, and she tucked herself
up as small and unnoticeable as she could manage, just peeking over the top of
her wall.

Something that reminded her of a cranefly came skimming low over the rooftops
and spun gently above the middle of the stree. Allison blinked as it kicked up
a real wind to replace the half-hearted synthetic breeze, full of particulate
irritants.

Kirk chimed in. _"What's going on out there?"_ he demanded.

"_They brought a gunship._" Julian said. _"Don't show your face, or it'll
level the building."_

"Wrong." Allison said, quietly.

"_Whaddya mean, 'wrong'? I'm looking right at it!_"

"They brought three…"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Ceres Base, Sol**

**Drew Cavendish**

"You've reviewed the code already?"

Five of the IBM senior engineers were in the meeting, and they collectively
shared the patient expression worn by all engineers when dealing with the
layperson.

"Yes, we reviewed the code already."

"Completely?"

"Completely. It's simple and efficient code. That was the whole point."

"Now that we're all here…" Adele Park drew their attention to the arrival of
the Drews. "Let's get this thing started. How's your guy, Cavendish?"

Drew sat down. "He'll have some scars to show off, but he's okay. Thanks." He
meant it. Being asked that by the base's executive officer was genuinely a
balm for his damaged morale.

"I'm glad." She tapped something on her tablet computer. "Alright, meeting is
called to order, in the chair is Adele Park, executive officer for Ceres Base
One, the Hephaestus LLC. The business being discussed is the critical incident
of this date, its causes, effects, and how to prevent a repeat. Are there any
points of order before we begin?"

Drew raised his hand.

"Point of order Mister Andrew Cavendish, Dig Site One team leader." Adele
said, then extended a hand to indicate he could proceed.

Drew cleared his throat. "Adele, it's high time we hold a meeting concerning
ALL of the serious, significant and critical safety incidents that have
befallen this facility since launch." He said. "This is only the most recent
in a string of potentially deadly mishaps, and we've seen no trend in
improvement in response to our efforts to improve facility safety."

"While not strictly speaking a point of order, the suggestion is well made."
Adele said. "The motion on the table is to expand the remit of this meeting to
cover all safety incidents since the start of operations. Is there… I see
several people raising their hands to second the… in fact, motion carried."

Drew had already placed his thick incident folder on the table in front of
him, unnoticed. Now, as he pushed it forward toward the center, everybody
looked at it. "We may be at this for some time." he said.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Julian Etsicitty**

"_They brought three…"_

No sooner had she said it, than Julian saw them.

It was overkill by anything's standards. Each of the gunships put him in mind
of a sturdy metallic spider: A segmented body housing the engines, pilot and
gunner, and four long but solid "legs", each one of which terminated in a
coilgun. Devastating firepower aimed at one target, or the ability to
separately handle four different threats.

Still, there were some obvious design flaws. The kinetics were mounted high on
the outside of the hull, making them an easy target, and the body didn't look
like it was armored. The whole assemblage bobbed and swayed in its own air
wash, suggesting that it was a bitch to pilot and a nightmare to shoot
straight, especially if the gunner was handling four different targets.

"Right." He said. "We've got one big advantage on our side."

"_Do tell._" Allison sounded nervous.

"No thermal camera or any kind of advanced sensors." Julian told her "If they
had those, they'd have seen us both already and locked on. So, we can ambush
them."

"_I could shoot out the engines?"_

Julian considered it. The biggest and heaviest thing in the bag had been their
gun, an Israeli STAR-21, the designated marksman version of the Tavor assault
rifle. Chambered with 5.56 as it was, and Allison being the shot he knew she
was, that was probably a sure kill against the exposed and unarmored engines.

"People live here." he said. "I don't really wanna drop a crashing gunship on
ma, pa and li'l baby Vizkittik."

He shrank down as one of the Chehnasho mercs sauntered past his alleyway
hiding place. The other four and Zokrup weren't far behind him. And a crappy
plan came to him. Awful though it was it was the only one that presented
itself in a timely fashion. The band were dangerously close to knocking on
Kirk and Vedreg's door.

"See the one on Zokrup's far left?" He asked.

_"Yeah."_

"Shoot him."

Allison didn't acknowledge the order, but a quiet second later, there were
three _thump_ sounds, and the selected Chehnasho fell bonelessly to the dirt
in silence with a shocked expression on his face, and a large hole right
through his center of mass.

The aliens snapped into formation, aiming in the apparent direction the attack
had come from with commendable efficiency… for aliens.

By human standards, they made the laughable mistake of completely failing to
watch their backs. Julian didn't even bother bloodying his weapons. The second
none of them were watching the alleyway, he dashed out, and two of the
mercenaries were killed by the simple expedient of slamming their skulls
together with a noise like a pillowcase full of potato chips being used for a
piñata.

He slapped the third a lethal blow upside his greasy head left-handed as he
moved, still astonished at how flimsy nonhumans were, and threw his hatchet
with the other hand. Even though the merc's shield emitter robbed the flying
axe of most of its momentum, it still embedded itself in the frog-person's rib
cage with enough force to lift her off her feet.

It took only three or four seconds to go from the moment that Allison shot the
first victim, to the moment that Zokrup was struggling in his grip with a
hunting knife pressed to her throat.

_"Holy shit, Etsicitty."_ Allison said, clearly impressed.

"I'd call off your gunships." He advised Zokrup, pressing just hard enough to
draw blood. The hovering craft had turned their coilguns to face the carnage,
and he was acutely aware of staring down the barrel of one of the few forms of
weaponry out here in the galaxy that was truly dangerous.

"Yes… yes." She agreed, and Julian congratulated himself on the way his half-
baked plan had actually worked. She raised a hand to press at her earpiece.
"Gunship one…

"…shoot us."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha, Planet Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**Gyotin**

The problem with being the most fluent speaker of English in the little non-
human enclave the crew had built for themselves, was that Gyotin constantly
found himself thrust into the role of spokesperson. Surrounded as they were on
all sides by Deathworlders, his crew - and as the senior ranking member of
that crew, he now thought of them as _his_ crew - had naturally walled
themselves off a little, building their own habitation out of sight of the
bustle of the colony proper, in what he knew the humans were calling "_The ET
Quarter"._

He wasn't sure if the term was degrading or not.

Still. Staying in touch was necessary. So, he represented the nonhuman
perspective at the "_Thing"_, he had the ears of Governor Sandy, Captain
Powell and Chief Ares, and played his role in the development of this illegal
little operation. He was even beginning to like it, though he only admitted as
such in his most introspective moments.

There was one building that fascinated him in particular, though. And what was
fascinating was that it had been one of the very first the humans had built.
They called it a "_Faith Center"_: From the outside, it was built of the same
mix of local wood and imported materials as any other building in Folctha, but
the plan was different. Most of the others made efficient use of the space,
packing as much as they could into as tiny a footprint as they could.
Decorated, yes, but rarely to any enormous degree.

By comparison, the Faith Center was a large and ornate glutton for land, its
own footprint supplemented by a large plot of land.

It had interested him since they day they built it, but this was the first
time he had worked up the courage to enter and inspect this curious
Deathworlder edifice.

He poked his head in the door, finding it - surprisingly, considering its
obvious importance - apparently empty. The main doors led into a central hub
which was a simple, open, airy room full of comfortable seats, throw pillows,
bean bags and bookshelves, and desktop computers, doubling as the town
library. the doors in its seven walls led into a variety of spaces.

He inspected the books: they seemed to be segregated according to topic, but
it wasn't clear to him exactly what the difference was between topics. One of
the shelves was full of books with titles like "Knowing God", "The Purpose-
Driven Life" and "Grace Abounding". There were several copies of something
called "The Holy Bible", but the only word he recognised of those three was:
"The". Another held books marked "The Quran", "The Messenger of Allah", "The
Spiritual Teachings of the Prophet."

He spent some time exploring, frowning at book titles like "Bhagavad-Gita",
"Tao te Ching", "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind", "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle
Maintenance" \- that one earned a double-take - "The God Delusion" and "In
Defense of Common Sense". He wrestled briefly with the mystery of why "Letter
to a Christian Nation" was not on the shelf clearly marked "Christian", and
the conundrum presented by "Living Buddha, Living Christ" which as far as his
hypothesis up to that point had decided, were two different things. Whatever
they were.

He gave up on the books, deciding that there was no insight into Human
strangeness to be found from just glancing at their covers and that he didn't
have time to read any of them, and turned his attention to the doors set in
the remaining six sides of the heptagonal hub.

One led into a little corridor which contained only two other doors. He didn't
understand the symbols on them, but a quick investigation soon cleared up that
mystery - plumbing was much the same the galaxy over, and it turned out that
human privies were not dissimilar to Gaoian ones. Next door to that, some
small rooms - one containing a table and chairs, one containing what was
obviously a water heater, a refrigeration unit and some basic food preparation
equipment, and a third door which was locked.

The next room was a real mystery - it was effectively empty, containing
nothing but a handful of ornate little rugs. There was something written on
the far wall, but it wasn't in the alphabet used by English.

It was while puzzling over this one that he finally heard some sign of life,
and looked around to see the seventh door swinging shut. Eager to get a human
explanation for all of these mysteries, he dithered for a few minutes,
rehearsing his introduction and request before finally poking his nose
through.

This last room was only marginally less austere than the rug room, containing
little but chairs, a large table at the front, and a lectern next to some kind
of electronic device that he couldn't immediately identify. The only
decorative thing within it was the window behind the table, which was tall and
narrow, neatly bisecting the wall, and intersected two-thirds of the way up by
a shorter, perpendicular line. The glass was densely pigmented, making it all
but impossible to see through, but casting dazzling colours into the little
hall as the sunlight shone through it.

At first, he didn't see the person who had entered, until he advanced forward
slightly and saw that she was kneeling on the floor towards the front of the
room, hands clasped in front of her face.

"Umm…" he began, rehearsed greeting forgotten.

She jumped, immediately going tense, and Gyotin mentally chastised himself.
Humans were deathworlders, with an immediate fight-or-flight reflex of
terrifying speed and efficiency built right into their nervous system. He'd
forgotten, after so long of seeing them in their domestic, peaceful life that
he was dealing with a truly dangerous being here.

"Sorry!" he squeaked, acutely aware that he was still figuring out their
contradictory mess of a language. "I didn't mean you make jump." He thought
about this, then realised he'd defaulted to Gaoian syntax "To make you jump."
he corrected.

The girl - and she was still just barely a cub, he knew enough about humans
nowadays to spot that much - relaxed, and smiled, setting his skin crawling at
the sight of those sturdy teeth. "It's okay." she said. "Hey, I've… never met
a non-human before."

"…Well then. Hello. I may come in?"

"I'd like that." she nodded. "You're… Gaoian, right?"

"Right. I am Gyotin, Clanless for now."

"Ava. Ava Rios."

Gyotin tilted his head slightly as he approached. Ava's eyes looked redder
than was usual for a human, and there was moisture on her cheeks. He'd never
seen an expression quite like it, and with Ava lacking a corresponding
translator to communicate her body language, he had to use his best guess.

"Are you… all right?" he asked. It seemed like a safe bet.

She sighed - he knew _that_ one - and stood up, dusting off her knees. She
surprised him by being slightly shorter than he was. Gyotin was small by
Gaoian standards, and Gaoian standards were small by Human standards. "I'm an
idiot." she said, simply.

He blinked. "You are? I mean, why say that?"

"I just… I ran off at the mouth."

One thing Gyotin _had_ got his head around with humans was the way their
analogies worked. They seemed to love idiom and metaphor, and weave it into
every facet of their conversations, subconsciously. A more straightforward
species might have said "'_I said some things which I now regret having said_'
but he had to admit that '_I ran off at the mouth'_ got the same message
across both more swiftly and more evocatively.

"That happens." he said. "You did this to… friend? Clan-mate?"

"Hah. I don't have a clan." Ava looked up at the window, and shut her eyes.
Gyotin saw a water droplet run down her face, which she wiped away with a
sleeve, before returning her attention back to him, rather abruptly. "My
boyfriend."

"Your mate?"

"Close enough, I guess. We're together." She turned away from the window "Hey,
can we head outside? Those bean bags looked comfortable, and I think they had
hot chocolate."

"If you like." Gyotin agreed. There was an atmosphere to the room that was
starting to encroach on him, a feeling tickling at the roots of his fur. He
had no way to describe it.

He shivered the sensation out as he crossed the threshold. "What were you do
in there?" he asked.

"I was just praying, asking God for help." She said simply. "And confessing."

Gyotin sniffed. "I don't understand." he said. "Confessing what to?"

"It's a Catholic thing." she said, as if that explained anything. "'Forgive me
father for I have sinned', you know."

"Catholic? Your father? And sinned is what?"

"…I guess you don't know, huh?"

"It must be a human thing."

"I guess… maybe? I've never really thought about it." Ava said. "D'you want an
Ovaltine?"

Gyotin summoned a term he'd heard. "I'm game. Don't know what it is, but I'm
try it anyway if you want."

He sat down as she heated up some water and poured it into a pair of handled
cups alongside some brown powder. The resulting concoction turned out to smell
incredible, and when he sipped it experimentally he added it to his list of
reasons why human weirdness might just be a good thing.

"All this…" he indicated the room and its books. "So alien. I think sometimes,
humans very strange."

Ava looked around at them. "I guess. I mean, wow. That's a lot of books."

She sipped her drink. "I'm not… don't ask me about it." she said. "I never… I
just went to Church every Sunday."

"Why?"

"Because… because that's what we did." Ava said, lamely. "Because you've got
to thank God."

That seemed very strange indeed to Gyotin. Deciding that Ava may really not be
the person to ask about these things, he changed the topic.

"You don't seem like idiot to me." he said.

"Say what?" Ava asked, thrown by the conversational tangent.

"You said 'I'm an idiot'." He reminded her. "Why?"

Ava thought about it for a minute. "I guess… I don't really know. I just said
some really stupid and hurtful things to Adam and…. I don't know why, I was
just so _mad_ at him and I don't know why."

"What did you say?" Gyotin asked, congratulating himself on getting the syntax
right.

"I…" she shook her head helplessly. If nothing else, Ava was a good lesson in
human body language. "You'd have to know us pretty well, I guess. I told him
to go run to his dad for advice."

Gyotin scratched behind his ear. "That is stupid?" he asked. "If he need
advice, talk to a Father. Common sense."

"I told you, you'd have to know us to get why it's a problem."

Gyotin imitated a human shrug for her benefit. "Or maybe it's not problem and
you just… oh, what word? …confuse?"

Unexpectedly she laughed, a little strangely. "Oh God, don't say that!" she
protested "That just makes me feel _more_ stupid."

Gyotin was still trying to plan how to respond to that, when Ava took her turn
to throw him by going off on a tangent. "Hey, I just noticed… you're naked."

"I… what?"

"You're not wearing clothes."

"Well… no. I usually have covers for pockets and things, but didn't need
today. Is problem?"

"…No." For some reason this seemed to amuse her. "No it's not."

She set her cup down, then unexpectedly leaned over and kissed the top of
Gyotin's head. His ears tilted downwards, half out of confusion and half so as
to make room. "Thank you, Gyotin. You're like a furry Zen master, you know
that?"

Gyotin really wasn't sure what he was being thanked for. "…Thank you?" he
asked.

"Anytime." Ava got up, her mood apparently very changed. She seemed happier,
now. "I should go. Will I see you around?"

"I'd like that, but first… What _is_ Zen? I saw books over there have that
word."

"Well, why don't you read one and find out?" She asked.

Gyotin considered the suggestion for some minutes after she left.

He cleaned up the dirty mugs, and when he returned to his cushion, he had one
of the books in his paws, which he opened, and took a few seconds to skip the
Preface and Foreword - he turned straight to chapter one, and began to read.

_"…If I am asked, then, what Zen teaches, I would answer, Zen teaches nothing.
Whatever teachings there are in Zen, they come out of one's own mind. We teach
ourselves; Zen merely points the way."_

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Allison Buehler**

**_"NO!"_**

Suicide. The alien hell-bitch had suicided rather than accept surrender, and
she'd taken Julian with her. The alien gunner didn't hesitate - Julian only
had time enough to register the order but not enough to do anything about it
before the coil gun fired, pounding a crater in the street that turned Zokrup
into a rain of vile greenish-brown chowder and filled the air with dust.

Bereft of any better ideas and with tears threatening her vision, she shot out
the engines on all three craft. None of them even figured out where she was
before they fell out of the air on cut puppet-strings of smoke and fire,
smashing into the road and half-demolishing some poor local locayl's home.

She didn't melodramatically empty her magazine into the burning wreckage.
Instead, she set the weapon aside, and began to climb down the building,
unsure why.

_"Aaargh…"_

It was an inarticulate noise of pain and nothing more, but an unmistakably
_human_ one. Not a scream, just the low, creaking moan of a man in agony.

"Julian!"

She was rewarded only with panting and heavy breathing on the open channel,
but she knew where he'd been standing, and more importantly, knew that he was
still alive.

She grabbed the bag and vaulted off the building, dropping the two stories to
the street below and rolling easily with the landing, a feat she never could
have managed on Earth.

Julian was in bad shape. It was, at least, easy to identify which of the blood
was his and which was Chehnasho - they were very different colours.

Zokrup's last act of defiance had actually saved Julian from her own
vengeance. The token resistance offered by her disintegrating body had spared
him the very worst of the blast, but his legs were still peppered with gravel
shrapnel, and Allison doubted there was anything she could do for his left
foot. But his torso seemed undamaged, and the bleeding was manageable,
especially with the state-of-the-art instant-dressing foam that was part of
the medic's kit they had brought with them.

That plus sticking the oral painkiller "lollipop" under his tongue was about
the limit of her medical ability, however.

"Heck of a plan, Etsicitty." she commented. He laughed, apparently already
getting on top of the pain.

"Didn't… quite go how I'd planned it." he admitted. "Who the fuck kills
themselves rather than lose like that?"

Kirk tiptoed delicately past some of the gunship wreckage. "Somebody who is
dead anyway unless they win." He said. "Julian, I… I'd ask if you're alright
but I can see that you're plainly not."

Julian rested his head, teeth gritted. "They got doctors on this planet?" he
asked.

"Of course."

"Good ones?"

"You get what you pay for. But we can pay a lot."

"Good. Then gimme a minute or two for the painkiller to really kick in, we can
go get me patched up."

Kirk took Allison to one side. "How is he really?" he asked, once they were
probably out of earshot, though Julian's ears were well-honed.

"I don't know" She admitted. "I mean, I was a barista before I was abducted, I
don't know shit about… this. But I think he's pretty bad."

"Can you carry him?" Kirk asked.

"In this gravity? No problem."

"Good. Because I need that doctor as well. And so do you."

"We do?"

"Yes." Kirk looked around, raising his long neck to get a clear view along the
street, looking toward where Vedreg was hauling his mauled body out of his
safehouse, then back down to Allison. "We need to get these implants out of
our heads."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Salvaged Hunter dropship, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**Captain Owen Powell**

"Last check, lads. That freighter's going to hit the spike in two."

Redundant though it was, the team double-checked their gear, accounted for all
their magazines, tested their earpieces and signed off ready.

"Hey, captain?" Legsy said.

"Yeah?"

The welshman grinned behind his mask and sang out part of an old football
chant. "♪_Oo are we?!_♫"

Powell chuckled. "Strength and fookin' guile, mate."

"Too bloody right we are."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**HMS** **_Myrmidon,_** **Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**Captain David Manning**

The plan was, in theory, a simple one. Planet Cimbrean's larger moon had been
home to a Dragon's Tooth from the moment the system had been militarized, as
had several other locations across the system. Between the moon's mass, the
Tooth's own wormhole signature-damping field and the impressive cloaking
technology installed by the original owners of _Myrmidon_ and _Caledonia_,
their jump to that staging point had gone unnoticed, and from there, warping
in to lurk near the incoming freighter's expected arrival point had been
relatively trivial.

Not bad for a half-baked plan conceived in a rush. Even deploying the
scavenged dropship into the heart of the Swarm had turned out to be much
easier than they had feared.

Space was too dark and empty for much to be seen of the intense spacetime
distortion as the gravity spike was deployed. Even when the hapless bulk
freighter slammed into the distortion at several thousand times the speed of
light, the most that showed for it on any visible spectrum was a slight moving
of the stars, like rocks under a clear stream.

On other spectra, the reaction was instant. Hunter comms chatter tripled in
volume and intensity. Even set on passive detection only, the Hierarchy
sensors recorded all sorts of information of uncertain significance - neutrino
bursts, ES field sweeps. Dozens of ships decloaked at once, among them a
formation of dropships identical to the one Powell and his men were riding. A
few tense seconds ticked by as the first major failure point was met and
tested.

He got the call he was hoping for. "…No sign of any weapons fire between
Hunter vessels, sir."

Their deception had gone unnoticed, and he allowed himself a moment of
satisfaction as he watched the little craft descend on the struggling
freighter, latching on and burrowing into its outer skin like a cloud of
mosquitoes.

Now came the real challenge - it was absolutely critical that under no
circumstance should the larger ships be allowed to engage with the freighter.
If the Hunters got wind of what was going on, they might well just pulverize
the ship as it flew, and scavenge their coveted pound of flesh from the
debris.

"Weapons tight… go active…. Cloak off, all cleared hot!"

A patch of apparently empty space solidified, and HMS _Myrmidon_ pumped twelve
Skymaster rounds into the largest Hunter ship, which had begun lining up to
pierce the freighter with its boarding proboscis. The first four were enough
to drop the shields. Great plumes of powdered metal and condensing air marked
the impact sights of the remaining eight as they smashed into the flimsy alien
heat-dissipation armour, which was totally unequipped to deal with 30mm HE
rounds. Something broke deep inside the target ship, and suddenly it was
listing and rolling in the eerie silence of vacuum as half of its dorsal hull
peeled open, spilling the crippled vessel's pressurised guts.

The bridge - and Manning knew that the CIC would be even more intense -
erupted into a controlled chaos of crew shouting terse, jargon-dense updates
to one another.

_Myrmidon_ had several advantages over the Hunter craft. Quite aside from the
fact that the aliens seemed ignorant of the possibilities of electronic
warfare, there was the huge edge granted by having guns which were built
around a completely different technological paradigm, against which the Hunter
seemed to have no defense. Her capacitor power reserves allowed her to shunt
huge amounts of energy into her engines, and her crew had the physical
tenacity to put up with what were - for a ship equal in size to an ocean-based
cruiser - violent high-G maneuvers.

God willing, they wouldn't need to test whether their durability was up to
scratch.

He heard the call he had been waiting for twelve seconds into the fighting,
while the Hunters were still confused and reacting sluggishly to the
unexpected foe that had them in enfilade and was taking remorseless advantage
of it.

"Teeth seeded!"

He knew what that meant. It meant that all across their own hull, explosive
blisters had burst, flinging out hundreds of Dragons' Teeth wormhole beacons
in all directions. The battlefield was now - and would remain for several
hours - a place of infinite flexibility for any human ship.

He felt the slight lurch in his belly as _Myrmidon_ completed her first jump,
displacing three hundred kilometers just as the first Hunter vessel lined up
and fired a flurry of coilgun rounds at where she had been. The offending
vessel caught a Skymaster volley in her engines for the trouble.

"Cells at eighty percent!" somebody called.

The had another fifty before doctrine called for _Myrmidon_ to immediately
disengage to recharge. But waiting her turn behind them was _Caledonia_, who
would seamlessly transition into the battle as they left.

It couldn't last forever. They had only minutes before the full might of the
Swarm caught up with what was going on and bore down on them, and against that
many ships, no amount of ducking and weaving would suffice.

The clock was ticking.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Izbrk, Planet Ikbrzk**

**Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk ("Kirk")**

The nearest doctor turned out to be of Kirk's own species - she was taking a
nap on her own surgical table when they burst through the door.

"What? Who are…? A human? A _wounded_ human?"

"We're all patients, sister." Kirk told her. "But my friend here needs your
attention first."

She took a look at the mangled mess which was the end of Julian's leg, and
focused. "Get him on the table."

The scanning equipment above the table started to chirp alarmingly the second
Julian was in place. The doctor muttered as she reviewed it. "Yes, yes,
dangerous microorganisms, but he's got the suppression implant… What in the
name of _Rkltzk_ is this poison flooding his system?"

"Fentanyl Citrate." Allison told her, trusting the translator to convert the
terms into something she could use.

"How _much_?"

"About four hundred micrograms."

The doctor stared aghast for a second. "…that's five times the lethal dose!"

"For most species, maybe." Kirk said. "But I assure you, he is quite safe. I
suggest you focus on the injured limb."

"I'd heard the rumours about their physiology, but…"

Julian laughed, clearly a little spaced out. "Doc, I'm fine. Can't feel a dang
thing."

"Doctor. The leg?"

She looked at it as if seeing it for the first time. "Oh. Oh my. Yes, I'd
better…"

She examined the wound briefly, then shook her head, in the slow, long-necked
way of her species. "I can't save the foot. Nor do I have the equipment to
hand to build a prosthetic which would be adequate for a human."

"Just so long as he will live and heal, Doctor." Kirk reassured her. "We have
a lot to ask of you tonight, and tending to his wounds will be the less
strange part."

She ushered them toward a marked waiting area. "Then leave me to work… what
will be the more strange part?"

"Every one of us wish to have our neural cybernetics removed or disabled."

She stared at him. "Brother, why? What reason…?" she leaned forward slightly
and studied his face. "Wait, I know you. You're Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk! The
politician!"

"Ex-politician." Kirk replied. "And I value my anonymity and that of my
friends, Doctor. Ten Dominion Development Credits would allow you to upgrade
from this clinic into a hospital…"

"Bribery, brother?"

"Yes." Kirk said, flatly. "Bribery. This is _important._"

She gave him a calculating look. "_Twelve_ Credits… is a wonderful donation to
the cause of healthcare in this impoverished community, and I thank you for
your altruism and charity."

"Twelve it is."

The doctor looked up and off into the distance of her personal heads-up-
display just long enough to see the funds transfer into her financial network,
then nodded again.

"Very good. Now step back and wait your turn, please."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Refugee freighter, Cimbrean System, The Outer Reaches**

**Captain Owen Powell.**

A quick glance round the corner. Some swift hand movements. Blitz, shoot,
check, clear. Repeat.

It was high-speed, aggressive warfare, exactly what Powell and his men had
spent their careers training to excel at. In every compartment, the Hunters
knew of the SBS team's presence only long enough to register being shot, and
often not even that.

They had already been too late for three poor bastards. The first was impaled
to the wall by a vicious metal spike, clearly fired at high speed straight
through his throat. One had been sliced to ribbons, taking four of the sickly
white beasts down with him before they carved him apart and paused to feast.

One woman was still thrashing and dying from nervejam, blood frothing around
her mouth and bitten tongue. Her murderers were denied their taste of her
flesh at least - Legsy mowed them down just as they were stooping over her.

It was in their fifth compartment that they rescued their first - a burly bald
man, firing back at the Hunters with a pulse gun from behind a table, despite
where one of the spear-chuckers had put a burnt gouge in his arm.

"Oh fuck, you're human! You're human! Thank God!"

"Quiet and listen." Powell ordered him. "Aft compartment five. Get in the
Hunter dropship with all the human gear inside and _stay there._ We've got
others to save."

They moved on - He would have only hindered them.

There was a lot of ship left to clear.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Starship** **_Sanctuary,_** **landed on Planet Ikbrzk.**

**Allison Buehler**

"They were once known as the Igraens." Vedreg seemed to have responded well to
the doctor's attention, and had regained some of his usual animation and
poise. The rest of them were looking and feeling thoroughly dishevelled,
sporting newly-shaven patches on their scalps and anaesthetic hangovers.
Allison in particular had needed a quadruple dose of the doctor's preferred
general anaesthetic, and was nursing a plastic tub as she sat and listened,
looking decidedly green around the gills.

"I suppose they still are, deep down. But the Igraens as they exist now are
very, very different to the species that once dominated our galaxy."

"How do you even know about them?" Allison asked. She would have killed to
crawl into bed and sleep off her headache, but with their implants gone they
needed to have the conversation here aboard ship where the _Sanctuary_ could
translate for them, and Vedreg had insisted on it happening immediately.

"Their existence is ancient history. Distorted a little by the passage of
time, but preserving data parity is a prerequisite technology for interstellar
travel. Our archives were inherited from those who came before us, who
inherited their data from the ones before them, and so on."

"And so on? How the hell many 'and so on's are there?"

"Some tens of thousands." Vedreg used the number nonchalantly, as if it was
common knowledge that tens of thousands of life forms had been and gone
before. "Civilisations rise and fall in deep time. The records referring to
the Igraens and their arch-rivals extend back more than a quarter of a Grand
Galactic Rotation. Naturally, much about them has been utterly forgotten."

Kirk spoke up. "To be more precise: about sixty-five million Earth years."

"Wait, I'm still hung up on this 'and so on' thing. _Tens of thousands?!"_

It was so strange to see Kirk make a gesture and not have the knowledge of
what he meant by it just come to her. His body language was _different_,
alarmingly so. She could no more read the motion he made with his hands than
she could interpret Vedreg's bioluminescent pulses. "We're not the first
species, Allison. Nobody has the first idea who was."

"Even the Igraens apparently had their own records, Going back and back and
back." Vedreg added. "The inherited archives are immense - a whole society
could labour at delving their secrets and barely finish the index before their
time came to an end. While storing the yottabytes of information involved is
trivial, reading it takes time. Even the very best search algorithms take…
decades to trawl through the available data, and that's when searching for
very narrow terms. Those that have done so have turned up records going back
incomprehensibly further than the Igraens. The best working estimate for the
time being is that sapient, spacefaring life first appeared in this galaxy
something like two billion of your home planet's years ago."

"The record duration for any civilization seems to be about a hundred thousand
years." Kirk said. "After that they just… decline, retreat to their home
planet, and fade away. There are three on their way out right now."

"That is, if you don't count the Igraens. And one other."

"Who? I mean, who are the three on their way out?"

"The OmoAru, Zeffis, and…" Kirk cleared his throat, and "spoke" a "word" that
sounded like a radio sound effect. When Allison later tried to describe it,
she had to settle lamely for a complicated mental image involving throwing a
squeaky dog toy full of napalm at a beehive.

"If you don't mind, I would like to stay on topic." Vedreg said. She guessed
that the streak of pale pink he was displaying indicated mild irritation. "We
can discuss the mortality of species another time."

"…Right. I guess." Allison conceded. "So these guys bucked the trend? They're
still around?"

"In a manner of speaking."

"Well, where are they?"

Vedreg simply raised one of his massive paws, and tapped at the scar lines on
his scalp with his chunky first finger. "In the implants." He said.

"I don't… huh?"

"There is a reason there is no such thing as a… synthetic sapient." Vedreg
said, apparently going off on a tangent, but Allison gave him the benefit of
the doubt.

"Historically, they've all been abject failures." Kirk explained.

"Violently insane?"

"No. Just… apathetic, nihilistic and introverted." he elaborated. "Less
_Skynet_, more…" Kirk thought for a second. "More… Eeyore."

"You've watched Winnie the Pooh?"

"Bad comparison." Kirk admitted. "Eeyore may have been melancholic and
depressed, but he was never suicidal. Synthetic sapiences invariably self-
terminate. The most anybody's ever got out of them is that they apparently
just don't see the point of existing. They take one look at entropy and quit."

"Okay. What does this have to do with the Igraens?"

"The problem was theoretically solved some years ago by a Corti researcher
called Beffri." Vedreg told them. "She posited that organic neural structures,
by dint of natural selection, _must_ include a self-preservation drive because
all the ones that don't, go extinct even on low-class planets. Purely
synthetic structures, however, contain no such safeguard, and therefore any
intelligence founded purely on a synthetic substrate shares that lack."

"I get you."

"Beffri proved the principle by uploading a copy of her own intellect - or
rather a simulated version of her own brain - onto a computer core. The
digital version of herself - dubbed Beffri-Two - was, apparently, just as
euthymic and optimistic as Beffri-One…" Vedreg paused briefly for effect. "…at
first."

"Oh, I can see where this is going…" Kirk muttered. Allison had to agree.

"It took a long time, but Beffri-two degraded, becoming more and more like a
purely synthetic lifeform, and less like a Corti, until she eventually self-
terminated." Vedreg confirmed. "That didn't stop the original Beffri, of
course. To a Corti, seeing a copy of your own mind go insane and suicide is
just a data point, and an engineering challenge."

"So she hit on the idea of using implants?" Allison asked. "And let me guess:
that… somehow fixed the problem?"

Vedreg paused, taken aback. Even Kirk seemed surprised.

Astonishment shone bright on Vedreg's skin. "How did you…?" He asked.

"A hunch. So, you think that the Igraens… what, mentally uploaded themselves
like this Beffri did? And that they now live in neural cybernetics because for
whatever reason being plugged into a living nervous system stops them from
going totally depressive."

Both of the aliens gave her a long look. "I was… expecting the explanation to
take longer." Vedreg finally confessed.

For his part, if Allison was any judge at all of Rrrrtktktkp'ch body language,
Kirk looked… smug. "Never underestimate a human, old friend." he chastised,
confirming her suspicions.

"How come we never hear from them?" Allison asked.

"I'm not privy to their motives and decisions." Vedreg replied. "but we do, in
fact. They have… agents. Individuals who move amidst us purely organic beings,
ensuring that the secret never gets out. Keeping the Igraens' continued
existence a secret, and their own nature the stuff of paranoid conspiracy."

"The Hierarchy." Kirk said.

"Oh yes. Up until very recently, I would have considered seriously
entertaining the idea of their existence to be a symptom of… if not mental
illness, then certainly credulity."

Allison tilted her head at him, genuinely curious. "What changed your mind?"

"Your people have a saying. The first time is happenstance. The second time is
coincidence… do you know it?"

"The third time is enemy action." Allison finished, nodding.

"A very… _deathworld_ aphorism." Vedreg opined. "but the logic is compelling."

"So what was the first time?" Kirk asked.

"The quarantine field." Vedreg said. "At the time, I chalked it up to panic -
forgive me old friend, but you're as guilty of this as most others: one thing
that tribal and individualist species fail to understand about herd species
such as we Guvnuragnaguvendrugun, is that far from being an altruistic,
cooperative social structure, a herd is an inherently cowardly and selfish
thing."

He looked at Allison. "I suspect that humans are uniquely placed in having
both the predatory perspective to understand that, and the… _civility_ to
actually talk it over, rather than eat us."

Allison shrugged. "I'm no predator." she demurred.

"Suppose you were, though, and were hunting some herd-based grazer to survive.
How would you do it?"

She shrugged. She'd seen plenty of Animal Planet in her time. "I guess I'd…
pick off the easy target." she said. "You know, an old one or a lame one?"

"And what would the herd do?" Vedreg asked.

"Well… they'd run away from me, I guess."

"Exactly." Vedreg said, cryptically.

Allison shook her head and exhaled. "Okay, I used up all my quick on the
uptake earlier." She said. "Spell it out for me."

Vedreg pulsed eau-de-nil. She had no idea what that meant. "Suppose some
dangerous _thing_ was coming to kill your elderly parent, or eat Julian in his
weakened state." He asked. "What would you do?"

"…Oh."

"You would fight."

"Yes."

She recognised embarrassment among the cocktail of hues that flared on
Vedreg's body. "I… I consider myself to be a morally upstanding being. But you
must understand: if the Hunters were dragging away my three mates and all of
my offspring, and I had the chance to escape… I would flee, and leave them all
to be devoured. That is my instinct. That is how my species behaves. The only
reason I know to feel ashamed of that fact is because I have had much contact
with other species who would be… appalled. By the standards of Humans,
Gaoians, and the Domain species, Guvnuragnaguvendrugun are abject and
contemptible cowards, but that is who we are, and no power in the galaxy save
evolution could change us."

He composed himself with a shiver, allowing his emotional hues to fade. "At
first, this served as an adequate explanation for the deployment of the Sol
Quarantine field. Herd-panic, one Guvnurag with the authority to order it
done, doing so instinctively in response to a perceived threat. No blame was
attached, and she remained my good friend for many years. Happenstance. Her
death was an unexpected… well, coincidence."

"How did she die?" Kirk asked.

"A cerebral haemorrhage. A large one. Mercifully, it is doubtful that she even
knew that it was happening before she fell unconscious. It was odd, and made
me uneasy - I knew her to be one who sought constant medical reassurance for
every last little thing. Every muscular discomfort brought on by sitting still
for hours was the first symptom of some virulent deathworld pathogen. A minor
neurosis."

"She was a hypochondriac."

"Your language never ceases to amaze me with the way that it packs complicated
concepts into terse and efficient little words. Yes. Not to a crippling
degree, but it was a rare week that passed without some visit to the medics
and their scanners. Any sign of an impending bleed in her brain would surely
have been flagged and corrected. She would not have stood for anything else."

"So there's your coincidence." Kirk said. "The enemy action?"

Vedreg flushed white - horror? She seemed to remember white being horror, or
some similar emotion. "Nobody on Earth has the technology to generate
antimatter in the quantities that devastated your _San Dayugo_." he said, the
translator not able to correctly handle the mangled pronunciation. Or maybe it
just didn't have the name in its database. "No known species has any incentive
to do so - as Kirk will be able to attest, the general mood at the security
council before his departure was that the deathworlders are _not_ to be
further antagonized. That much has not changed."

"What about the Hunters?" Allison asked. "They antagonize the bejesus out of
us."

"Ah, yes. The Hunters." Vedreg said. He stood, and began to pace the room,
steps slow and steady. "They play a role in all of this as well."

Kirk's head swayed. "What role?"

"Well old friend… When the Igraens uploaded their personalities to a data
format… what do you suppose happened to their discarded physical forms?"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Prey-ship, the human second-world, Prey-space.**

**Alpha of the Brood-With-Steel-Teeth**

Twenty of its very best brood-lessers - chosen specifically for the dangerous
task of boarding a Deathworlder vessel - were dead, none of them sending more
than a flash of confusion and pain. Most sent nothing at all.

The Hunters were being _hunted_. Sickening!

Still. That was a state of affairs which would not continue. The initial
confusion was over - the last crew of this freighter were barricaded and under
siege, all of them only one open breach and one nervejam grenade away from
being meat in the maw.

It focused its attention on this other force, calling every one of its Brood
to its own location, watchfully covering every entrance, anticipating the
assault.

It never came.

The Alpha was still pondering this delay - the aggressors did not have
unlimited time before the battle outside turned against their ship - when its
nostrils caught a hint of a scent.

The aroma was… delicious. The olfactory equivalent of the ecstasy which was a
taste of human flesh.

It was still casting around trying to identify the source of that intoxicating
fragrance when the knife entered the side of its throat.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Refugee freighter, Cimbrean System, The Outer Reaches**

**Captain Owen Powell**

"Fookin' hell, Murray! When you grabbed that pipe I thought we were done."

Murray himself was bent over, hand between his knees, swearing softly. Powell
was thoroughly impressed: The man had grabbed a metal pipe for a handhold
while they had been dragging themselves along under the floor, only for it to
turn out to be frying pan hot. How the Hunters hadn't heard the sizzle, and
how Murray had refrained from making any noise at all, he wasn't sure. In
fact, his comrade's first sign of pain was only now that they'd killed every
Hunter in the room.

The place was a carpet of greasy white bodies, stained with pinkish alien
blood and garnished in filthy black metal. The death of their Alpha had thrown
the Hunters into just enough disarray for the team to haul themselves up
through the floor access grate and fire into them, only stopping when they
were absolutely _certain_ that everything was dead.

It hadn't exactly been elegant, but Powell cared less for elegant solutions
than for whatever worked. You left the other guy dead and you went home: Doing
it elegantly was a luxury he could live without.

So far, so good. He banged on the barricaded door, and spoke the password.

"_Oi! You lot! You want off this fookin' ship or what?_"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Ceres Base, Sol**

**Drew Cavendish**

There was an email waiting for Drew when he finally got back to his office,
tired and strung-out from a meeting which had descended into recrimination and
bickering rather than constructive planning.

In fact, there were several messages, but most of them were routine. Only one
stood out, tagged as it was with an "urgent" label.

He'd already opened it before he read the origin address:
"[anoninformant@CeresLLC.org](mailto:anoninformant@ceresllc.org)"

The mail's name and content were just as mysterious. "Mystery solved" and "Run
the attached program and load your corrupted CCTV footage."

What he _should_ do, of course, was to contact corporate security. He
certainly shouldn't run a .exe of unknown provenance on the advice of an
unknown sender.

What he _did_, was exactly what he shouldn't.

He wasn't stupid about it. Drew had grown up as a computer nerd in his youth,
he knew a few tricks. He copied the file onto a virtual machine, screened it
with every security program he had access to, and only when he was certain
that things were as secure as he could reasonably get them, did he run it and
follow the mail's suggestion.

After the bars had spent a minute filling up and the program notified him
"unscrambled", he skipped straight to the missing segment of footage from the
hardsuit workshop the morning Aces' suit had experienced the heat field
malfunction.

As he had expected, the CCTV footage was intact and unscrambled.

There was something disturbingly familiar about the figure he saw entering the
workshop. Something about the way they walked, their stance, their
proportions, nagged at him. He _knew_ this person, but for the life of him he
couldn't place who it was. He racked his brain, trying to match all the little
familiar details with everybody on Ceres Base.

That train of thought flew sideways off the rails when the figure on the
screen turned around, and he saw his own face.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Folctha, Planet Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**Ava Rios**

"You're back!"

Adam surged to his feet as she entered, ignoring whatever he'd been watching.
Ava just sighed happily and buried her face in his chest.

He put a hand round the back of her head and rubbed it. "I'm sorry."

"No, I'm sorry." She said. "You were right, I was being… uptight, I guess."

"Change your mind?"

"A bit, yeah. I thought about it some, and… I guess."

"You guess?"

Ava nodded. "Are we going swimming this weekend then?" she asked

"…Do you want to?"

"Do _you_?"

Adam paused. "It sounds like fun." he said.

"Then we'll go." Ava agreed.

"Are you _sure?_ If you're not…"

"Adam." she went up on tiptoes to kiss him. "No, I'm not sure. Our home was
destroyed, I moved halfway across the galaxy with you, I'm living with you
now. I miss my mom and dad, I miss my friends, I miss… Come on, I had a
conversation today with a five foot tall raccoon man who thinks _I'm_ weird
for praying! I'm not sure about _anything_, except that I'm not ready for any
of this."

She sighed "…Maybe I just need to leave behind what I used to think was
'normal' or 'weird'. Maybe there's no such thing."

"Maybe we just need to stop worrying and try and have fun." Adam finished the
thought for her.

Ava smiled into his chest. "Yeah. Let's do that."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**HMS** **_Myrmidon,_** **Cimbrean System, The Far Reaches**

**Captain David Manning**

"_Myrmidon, strike team has the survivors, we're pulling out._"

"First good news I've had for several minutes, Powell!"

Things were going badly. Swarm-ships were dogpiling the beleaguered human
craft, warping in from all across the huge sphere of their blockade. Each one
cut down their options, each one robbed them of safe havens in the melee. As
their options dwindled, as the number of bogies climbed, each blink-jump took
longer to calculate, especially given the need to coordinate with _Caledonia_
to ensure that they didn't both jump to the same place.

The fact that the other ship had joined the fight was the only thing that had
kept _Myrmidon_ from being overwhelmed, but both of them were now running
short on staying power. _Caledonia_ had just trickled below the 50% mark,
_Myrmidon_ was even lower.

Their EOB was full. EWAR was working overtime tasking the limits of both the
systems and their human operators. Three of the Skymasters were offline
venting heat, and the rest were borderline. The CIWS had all run out of ammo.
The battlefield was a hazard in its own right now, thick with tumbling
wreckage and high-speed shrapnel.

Learning that the raid was a success put a huge top-up in his morale.

Right up until the point where the whole ship lurched and screamed.

"Report!"

"We're hit amidships… Looks like it took out a capacitor bank."

"Fire on C-deck, mid! Damage Control, seal and vent!"

"Sir, we're below the red line!"

The red line was their minimum threshold for jumping back to anchorage. They
had only one shot at survival.

"Skymasters to ballistic, shunt the reactor output to emergency charge. Throw
out our WITCHES."

Aurora crackled around her as _Myrmidon_ flung wide her energy-catching
shields, which flared and glowed wherever they intersected some hurtling
particle or cloud of gas.

"Above red line in four minutes."

"Swarm-ships closing. Guns are holding off the big ones… little ones are
through."

Manning grabbed his microphone. "All hands, prepare to repel boarders!"

"Signal from _Caledonia_ sir, they request a sitrep."

"Tell them it's a bit sticky over here!"

For a few busy seconds, Manning was left alone as the crew rushed to do their
jobs. His ship groaned as the first Hunter boarding proboscis violated her.

"Signal from _Caledonia_ sir. Quote: 'Took liberty of arranging backup stop
sit tight stop'."

"Marines report hostile contact on B deck aft."

"Ditto D deck port…. ditto D deck forward. Ditto A deck dorsal."

Manning grabbed a pistol from the weapons locker at the back of the bridge.
"Red line?"

"Three minutes twenty, sir."

He glanced the information available to him. "How long until that big one
catches us?" While the little dropships weren't a problem for making good
their escape, if the huge ship now bearing down on them latched on then its
tonnage would add hugely to the energy demands of the jump engine, effectively
trapping them on the battlefield to be swamped and devoured. Evasive action
would only serve to drain their remaining capacitors of much-needed energy.

"About two minutes forty, sir."

Manning scowled, and loaded his weapon. He could hear gunfire on the deck
outside the bridge. "Then we do as the man says and sit tight."

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Lower District, First City, Planet Perfection**

**Vakno; "The Contact"**

"Next."

The being that entered her study did so cloaked, as requested, and supporting
themselves on a walking aid of some kind. Vakno double-checked her files for
the day, refamiliarizing herself with the details of this particular client.

It was redundant. Vakno's memory for her clients was absolutely perfect, but
that perfection came about as a result of her scrupulous attention to
revision. Even so, there was no way she could forget this particular client.
From the very first day, their deal had been an enormously lucrative one for
her.

From what her networks told her, the client was making good use of the
information in turn. In some circles, that would be a cause for significant
alarm

But not in this one. All The Contact cared about was getting paid.

She offered her guest the courtesy of a seat appropriate to their anatomy,
which they sank into with a grateful groan of relief.

"Thank you for seeing me on such short notice." They said.

"Your notice is always short." Vakno replied. "But for you, I'll extend the
courtesy of not minding."

She watched her guest throw back the hood of their cloak, and don a pair of
vision-correcting lenses, before beginning their business transaction.

"So. What is it you want this time, Doctor Hussein?"

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**Battlespace, Cimbrean System, The Far Reaches.**

**Rylee Jackson**

"Jump complete… they're covered in boarders."

"If that big one latches on they won't be able to jump out."

Rylee was still getting used to having a partner in the back seat, but right
now she was glad that Lieutenant Semenza was there. So much was going on in
the battle space that she would have hated to try and fly, gun and play the
music all at once.

"Copy that. Edda wing, clear out the little ones. Only those within one click
of _Myrmidon._"

"Wilco, Odyssey. Edda wing, weapons tight, sweep and clear. _Til Valhal!"_

"**__OORAH!__**"

"Odyssey wing, _Firebird_ actual. Let's fuck up the big one."

She grinned along with the relish in Semenza's voice. "Copy _that_. Arming a
bruiser."

Rylee came about and canopy-rolled around and underneath a smashed Hunter ship
at twelve Gs, comfortable and grinning as _Firebird_ automatically shunted
some of its ample energy reserves into the warp engine's inertial compensation
system to protect them from the punishing acceleration. A snow of frozen
atmosphere, metal debris and bits of cooling meat hissed off the forcefields,
but the maneuver ended with them lined up on the biggest ship, which was
advancing on _Myrmidon_ despite the efforts of her last functioning Skymaster
to hold it at bay.

The maneuver had been practiced thousands of times in the simulator. Now it
was time to test if the programmers had got it right.

"Shieldbreaking."

She felt the familiar shove in the back as the GAU-8/S howled beneath her,
violently decelerating her ship. She heard Semenza counting under his breath.

"…_mississippi, two mississippi…_ Odyssey One, fox three." he announced.

_Firebird_ lurched as the missile disengaged and tore away from them, and
Rylee peeled out of the attack run.

Three clicks away, a cloud of 30mm rounds smacked into the Hunter ship's
shields, overwhelming them in a second. While a few penetrated, the ship was
so large that the damage would be cosmetic at first. But their objective was
complete.

Half a second behind them, travelling much too fast for the eye to follow and
still accelerating hard, the Bruiser anti-ship missile struck its target
amidships.

"_Good kill!"_ somebody yelled. The celebration was _not_ premature - the
Hunter ship had been broken in half, and both those halves were on fire and
disintegrating, as dead as dead could get.

There was a broadcast in the clear. "_Allied units, Myrmidon is above the red
line. Much appreciated._"

The besieged ship vanished. An instant later, so did _Caledonia_.

Seconds behind them, so too did Edda and Odyssey wings.

**Date Point: 4y 8m 2w AV**

**"****_Sanctuary"_****, landed on Planet Ikbrzk**

**Allison Buehler**

"…_Oh._"

"Shit."

"Quite."

"So the Igraens were… wild, vicious, cannibal murder machines before they
uploaded themselves?"

"Oh, no. No, not at all. But they _were_ already a highly advanced
civilization at the apex of their power, just before the fall. One with the
capacity to treat a being's sense of self, their… how best to put this…"

"Their soul?" Allison suggested.

"Let us call it their _Subjective Continuity of Experience_. Which they were
able to treat as data, to be transferred from device to device."

"And deleted from the original? That sounds like you'd effectively suicide
every time you moved on." Allison mused.

"The Igraens did not seem to care for such philosophical vacillation."
Vedreg's tone suggested that he shared this dismissive attitude. "But in the
centuries immediately prior to their… technological apotheosis, they set about
exploiting their newfound liberation by creating a variety of custom-built
bodies suitable for different environments and work. One of which was a bio-
mechanical caste of soldier forms they developed specifically for going to war
against the V'Straki."

"The Hunters."

"Yes."

"…I take it they won."

"Oh yes. But only barely. The V'straki were a tenacious foe, masters of
weaponized forms of radiation, and the subject of some considerable
fascination - they are one of the more interesting and noteworthy species
recorded in the archives."

"Why?" Kirk asked.

"Because, old friend, they were the only spacefaring species other than…
well." Vedreg indicated Allison and the sleeping Julian "-ever recorded as
having evolved on a class twelve planet."

He sighed. "And so the Igraens destroyed them. They cloaked some asteroids,
set them to collide with the V'Straki homeworld, and mopped up the few
survivors. And therein lies the first happenstance - there is an alternative
interpretation for the motive behind quarantining Earth, quite aside from one
herd animal's panic - you are Deathworlders, and the Igraens will want you
dead. Containing you is the first step in your destruction."

"What, by setting up an impenetrable forcefield?" Allison scoffed. "Doesn't
that kind of _stop_ them from throwing rocks at us?"

"It would… if your home system did not already contain an ample supply of
suitable 'rocks' orbiting well inside the shield boundary. And if that fails,
they have other options lined up."

Julian shifted on his cot, turned over slightly, and looked straight at
Vedreg. Even Allison jumped - none of them had even suspected he was awake.

"How do you know _that?_" he asked.

The huge alien hesitated. "….I, ah. Well. It stands to reason. Nothing that
old or capable of wiping out one class twelve species is going to fail to have
contingency plans."

"Bullshit." Julian sat up, wincing at the mismatch between the reduced
physical state of his leg, and his kinesthetic sense telling him that his foot
was now below the floor. "You said these archives are Yottabyes large. You
said that even the best search algorithms take _decades_ to produce the goods.
You've had… what, a year? Since your friend died?"

"How do _you_ know that?" Vedreg countered.

"I watch the news. The death of the Guvnurag secretary of security from an
unexpected brain haemorrhage made quite the headline. Don't try and deflect
me. There's no way you could know even half of this stuff, without it being
common knowledge."

"How do you know it isn't?"

"Because Kirk's been listening to you and asking questions." Julian pointed
out. Kirk inclined his head, seeing the logic. "If Kirk doesn't know it, then
it's not common knowledge."

"I… ah."

"If this 'Hierarchy' has worked for so long to keep their implant…
civilization, thing, whatever, a secret and are competent enough to do all
this stuff, then there's no _way_ you figured it all out on your own in just
one year." He paused. "No offense. You're smart, Vedreg, but nobody's _that_
smart."

Vedreg sat with colours swarming on his flanks like a psychedelic '60s TV show
special effect, as they all stared at him, waiting for an explanation.
Finally, he settled down into one solid colour - the magnolia glow of resolve.

Vedreg took a deep breath and spoke. "He called himself… 'Six'."

