# Chapter 21: "Dragon Dreams" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

_Black soil. Not peat-dark or wet from rain, but the black of carbon and
nighttime, visible between clumps of grass so rich and dark and green, the
green of leather on an antique desk._

_The smell of rain on the air, lightning sulking among the peaks of distant
blue mountains, bringing life to a dead, grey sky. Moisture on the breeze,
tickling every inch of Xiu's naked body as she walks nude beside a hip-high
dry stone wall, enjoying the feel of damp earth under her soles._

_A meditative moment, so real that the past and future are irrelevant. She
isn't even interested in recalling them. Where has she been? Where is she
going? It doesn't matter._

_Here and now, everything is both too detailed, and yet lacking in detail._

_She pauses by a giant stone man, buried up to his waist next to a tree at the
crossroads. She is not alarmed by his presence, nor by the fact that she
hasn't seen him until just now. He looks down at her and smiles, even though
his face is made of grey limestone, stubbled in lichen and moss. She is not
not alarmed._

_He gestures to the tree that he has been half-buried alongside. Objects hang
in that tree: impossible ones, clearly too large and heavy for the boughs to
support. Wooden cartwheels, huge stone tablets, enormous steel swords and
more._

_She points. "That one."_

_The stone giant bows with a hand over his heart, and selects the enormous
bronze coin that she has chosen._

_He raises it above his head. She spreads her arms, tilts her head back and
smiles, welcoming what he is about to do. He brings it down hard, and_ she
woke in the instant before it crushed her_._

"And then I said - "**_Walk_** _home asshole!_" and hit the button!"

"Oh _man_!" Allison giggled, then winced as the laughter sent a fresh stab of
pain through her abused cranium. When she raised her hand to the pain, it met
cold metal instead. She had endured an uncomfortable and boring night in the
ship's infirmary wearing a large and dorky helmet that Kirk had printed which
used some form of applied alien science magic to clear up the lingering
effects of being beaten in the head with a _Huh_. It looked like something out
of a 1960s SciFi serial.

"Are you okay?" Xiu asked, concerned.

"…Yeah. Yeah, I'm fine, really."

Xiu frowned at her. "Are you _sure_?"

Allison nodded. "This thing's really working. I was so woozy last night, and
now I'm feeling sharp again."

"Yeah but…" Xiu's smile was mischievous as she indicated the medical
contraption that was clamped around her head. "You look like you're having
your hair permed."

Allison pantomimed dismay. "Oh God, get me out of this thing! I don't want to
look like my Mom!"

Xiu flicked her own hair where a few strands had come loose of their ponytail.
After years of having to make do in alien civilization while pretending to be
Gaoian it had lost a little of its lustre, but she'd still done what she could
to keep it healthy. "Too late."

"Yeah?"

Xiu paused. "I… I guess so. I mean… I haven't seen her in like five years."

The deep therapy machine beeped in protest as Allison tried to lean forward
and put a hand on her shoulder. "OKay, yeah. That's rough." she said. "I guess
I can see why you'd want to go home."

"You still want me to stay though, don't you?"

"Girl, after the ass-whupping _you_ just handed out? _Hell_ yes!" Allison
enthused. She settled back again "But five years is rough, you need to see
your folks. I get it."

"Don't you want to see yours?"

"Oh hell, no." Allison grimaced. "My folks and I… we never got along. I cut
them out of my life a long time ago."

"Oh." Xiu cleared her throat and tried her best not to blush awkwardly.
"Sorry."

"No, no, it's fine. Ancient history. But you can't live at home _forever_, can
you?"

"With Mama's cooking?" Xiu demurred "Oh, I could. I know exactly what she's
going to make for me, too, when she sees me."

"Yeah?"

"Mmhmm. It'll be her special _Paigu bazaifan_, with _Doufuhua_ for dessert."
She drifted off into a culinary haze. "She thinks they're my favorites…"

Allison laughed. "She _thinks_?"

Xiu made a curious head-ducking motion again, then caught herself and grinned
sheepishly. "Sorry, I'm still doing Gaoian body language. Yeah, she thinks
that and… well, she's not wrong. It's just that those were my favorites when I
was ten."

"I get it. You could do with being ten years old again for a little while."

Xiu smiled, whistfully. "Oh, I could…"

Julian poked his head around the door. "How're you feeling?" he asked.

"Good!" Allison confirmed, beaming at him. "Much better than last night.
Amir's still out of it though."

Julian checked on their slumbering pilot. "He's fine. Just asleep." he
reported, reading off the display above Amir's bed.

"Didn't Lewis get hit in the head too?" Xiu asked.

"Honestly? It's kinda hard to tell with Lewis." Julian shrugged as he began to
help Allison unplug. "He seems okay. He keeps playing with that ball thing."

"The _Huh_? Fuck sake, I had my fill of that thing when Zane hit me in the
head with it." Allison griped.

"Yeah, why _do_ you guys keep calling it the _Huh_?" Julian asked, releasing
the catches on her helmet and gently pulling it off

"It's a weird story." Allison swung her legs down off the bed and ruffled her
own hair. "Wow, I feel way better."

"Short version?"

"Short version is, that's what the word for that thing is in OmoAru. _Huh_."

"…Oh. Right." Julian removed the last sticky patch from her forehead and
helped her to her feet, where she swayed alarmingly.

"Woah. Oh, okay. Still kinda… no, no, get off guys, I'm fine."

Xiu let go of her arm where she had caught it. "Are you sure?"

"You go with Julian. I didn't sleep well at _all_ last night, so, I'll be in
my bunk."

Reluctantly they let her go, though she had obviously recovered most of her
balance and focus. She only touched the door frame lightly on the way out.

"So uh… when are we heading for a station with a relay?" Xiu asked.

The door and deck both being sized to admit a Guvnurag, they had no trouble
walking side by side towards the flight deck, but it was still just narrow
enough for her to be acutely aware of him walking beside her, and that
awareness was engendering some acutely hormonal feelings. If he was at all
conscious of the effect he was having, though, he didn't show it.

"Kirk and Vedreg are keen to explore this whole hospital angle." Julian told
her. "Wish I could tell you how long that's likely to take."

He smiled at her crestfallen expression. "Hey, I'm sorry. But we've got other
missions too, you know? It's rough, I know, but we'll get you back as soon as
we can."

"I guess… it's just, you said this ship is really fast right?"

"Probably the fastest in the galaxy." he confirmed "But it's still a week to
the nearest station from here. The galaxy's a _big_ place, and this is one of
the empty bits."

"Right." she sighed. "I can't ask you to take a whole fortnight out for me,
I'm not that important."

She realised that the sentiment had come off as bitter. "I mean! Um… That came
out wrong."

Julian chuckled. "It's fine."

"Allison wants me to stay."

Julian stopped as they were about to cross the threshold into the common area.
"So do I." he confessed.

"Y-you do?"

He nodded.

"Why?" she asked

Julian didn't even need to pause to think. "We've rescued people that the
galaxy totally broke." he said. "I remember one Polish lady called Maria, she
never learned to speak a word of any alien language, never even figured out
the whole… Deathworlder thing. She was pretty much starving and out of her
mind by the time we got to her."

"You're different." he continued. "You've learned the skills to survive out
here, you speak Gaoian, you've kept fit and well fed and you did it by earning
your keep. There's a whole long section in your file written by somebody
called Ayma which is just… _Glowing_."

Xiu hesitated, suppressing a surge of guilt on hearing Ayma's name. "Glowing?"

"Nonlethal takedowns of alien species, even some of the flimsier ones.
Boarding one of the _big_ Hunter ships solo to save a diplomatic vessel.
Integrating into Gaoian society and making yourself useful. Surviving -
_thriving_ \- incognito around the galaxy for three years… It all speaks to a
skillset that this ship and our mission would find very useful, and I'm not
talking about your ability to beat stuff up. You're a competent woman, Xiu."

Xiu blinked at him. "I don't feel competent." she said.

It wasn't adequate, but… where did she begin? That she didn't recognise the
person he'd just described? That, okay, she may have done those things, but
she'd been _this_ close to throwing up the whole time? That she'd cried
herself to sleep more nights than not? That she had felt alone, _so_ alone for
all of those years, and that even Ayma, Myun and all the others had been…
well, they'd been great, but no substitute for _home_?

Julian smiled sadly. "Neither do I." he confessed.

Xiu changed the subject. "We'd better… uh, what are we doing?"

"Nothing, really. I'm just heading up to the flight deck."

"Oh… Uh, I didn't exercise yet today. I'll go get on with that, I guess."

"Sure. But… if you're interested, later on? Ayma left a message for you in
your notes."

Xiu's heart manage the interesting trick of simultaneously rising and sinking.
"She….? Oh… Have you-?"

"Nope. It's a personal message."

"Oh… uh, is there one from my family?"

"There's a letter, yeah."

"Oh." She… actually didn't know how she felt about that. Scared and excited at
the same time.

"Why don't you go read them? The gym can wait." Julian offered. "See you at
lunch?"

"Oh! Yeah. Sure. See you."

"Duuude."

"Lewis, are you _ever_ going to stop playing with that thing?"

Kirk's upper upper arm was encased in something that was a fair bit more high-
tech than a cast, which served to immobilize the broken bone and deliver
regenerative medicines through dermal contact. Having his coat shaved to apply
the cast had been embarrassing enough, but now the damn thing _itched_, which
was making him cranky.

"No, Kirk, dude, it's… look at this shit, man!"

Kirk glanced at it. As far as he could tell the little object was still as
grey and uninteresting as the last time he'd looked. Lewis' expression,
however, was rapt. "Put it _down_." he ordered. Lewis made a complaining noise
but obeyed, tucking the _Huh_ into the pocket of his jacket, which was hung on
the back of his chair.

Kirk grimaced as another eddy knocked _Sanctuary_ off course. Amir would have
handled the buffeting effortlessly, but even Deathworlders needed time to
recover from being knocked unconscious, it seemed. They healed absurdly fast,
with or without the ministrations of a deep therapy machine, but that was of
small comfort when it left Kirk to deal with clear air turbulence.

"How big _is_ this cell?" he demanded.

"Wish I could tell you man, but I'm still looking for a satellite that works.
They didn't build these things to last."

"Well, where are we? We've got to be close to AmoUetu-RumuAo-Eiru by now."

"Right above it, dude."

Kirk frowned through the flight deck's transparent surface. All he could see
below him was a flat expanse of beige.

"Are you sure? I don't see the river." he said.

"That's because of the sandstorm, man."

Perspective clicked in. "Oh…" He said. "…We're not landing in that."

"Figured as much, bro." Lewis laughed. "Survey says the turbulence shouldn't
go higher than twenty clicks if you wanna wait it out."

"Yes. Let's do that." Kirk agreed. He punched the commands in and _Sanctuary_
stood on its tail to ascend above the weather, eventually getting to the point
where the autopilot was happy to take over again. Nobody on board noticed -
_'down'_ was still defined by the gravity plating in the deck, rather than by
the planet

Kirk set the ship to hover once they were clear of the turbulence, and
relaxed.

"Fucking Class Nines…" he muttered. "Any luck with those satellites?"

"Nah man. Half of them just aren't there any more and half the rest ran out of
power years ago. Must be bits of space debris all over this desert."

"What's left?"

"Some of the stuff that's in geosynchronous or higher." Lewis said. "That's
about it, man. Best one I've got is… I dunno, a telescope of some kind? That
one's still kicking just fine, the rest…"

"Right." Kirk settled back. "I suppose there's nothing to do now but wait."

"You mind if I…?" Lewis indicated his pocket.

"What's so fascinating about that damn thing?"

"See for yourself, bro."

Lewis dug out the _Huh_ again and handed it over. Kirk sighed, and inspected
it.

The _Huh_ really was nothing more than a metal ball that fit well in his hand.
He turned it over, looking for any sign of adornment, finding none.

He turned it over again, puzzling over it. Why should something so small be so
fascinating to Lewis? It was just… smooth. What mysteries could what looked
and felt for all the world like a big ball-bearing possibly hold?

No matter what angle he inspected it from, it was so round and so uniform in
appearance. It managed the strange trick of being metallic and perfectly,
featurelessly smooth, but yet it reflected nothing. He knew he was turning it
over - he could feel the friction on his fingers and palm - but it seemed to
hang motionless, an anomaly in his hands, as if _it_ wasn't moving, but the
rest of the universe _was_.

Lewis snatched it out of his hands. "_DUDE!_"

"What? What?"

"You've been staring at it for like five minutes, bro."

"Nonsense, I only just-" Kirk glanced at the timepiece and stopped mid-
sentence. Nearly twelve _Ri_ had gone past. "…I could have sworn…?"

"Nah man, you zoned the fuck _out_. Like, way worse than I do."

Kirk shook his mane, trying to shake off a lingering feeling that he could
understand what was going on if he just held the _Huh_ some more. "Can I look
at…? No, what am I saying? Lock that thing away!"

"Dude, it's just another drug. You're not used to it, that's all."

"Lewis. It's dangerous."

"For _you_ maybe!"

"Humans have more sensitive neural structures than my species, you know that!"

"Maybe, but I'm the one who heard you and stopped when you _said_ stop, man.
You didn't even hear me!"

"What in the _hell_ are you two arguing about?"

Julian looked back and forth between them as he hauled himself into the flight
deck. Lewis simply handed him the _Huh_.

Julian frowned at it. "You're arguing over this?"

"Just… have a look at it man. Turn it over."

"What, this thing? It's just… I mean… well…"

Julian tilted his head back and forth and frowned at the object in his hands
as he turned it over a few times, then blinked and shook it off. "What about
it?"

Lewis aimed a triumphant smirk at Kirk. "See?"

"That proves nothing. It still mesmerised him, too."

"Yeah, but only for like… seconds!" Lewis protested, and knocked on Julian's
upper arm. "Right?"

"Huh? Oh, yeah." Julian looked back up from the ball. "I dunno, that's kinda
weird. Maybe we shouldn't be messing with it."

"Why?"

Julian's expression was patient in a '_you're being kinda dumb_' way. "Well, I
mean… we _are_ investigating why ancient species go extinct…" he pointed out.

Lewis paused "…Ah. Yeah. Right." He frowned at the _Huh._ "Okay, yeah, maybe
lock that thing up somewhere."

"Allison can look after it." Kirk decided.

"Good call." Julian agreed.

"Don't let her study it. We don't want its keeper to be under its spell as
well."

Lewis scoffed. "_'Under its spell_'? What is this thing, a fucking Palantir?"

"You know what I mean." Kirk replied, patiently. "It's clearly affecting and
influencing us somehow: best to put it in the care of somebody who is as-yet
unaffected and uninfluenced."

"Aside from being beaten around the head with it." Julian noted. "Right." He
took his T-shirt off and knotted it around the _Huh_.

"Swole as fuck, dude. I'm 'mirin, no homo." Lewis snarked, earning a middle
finger from Julian in response to the old meme.

"When are we landing, anyway?" Julian asked.

"When I know, you'll know dude." Lewis assured him. "Soon, trademark."

Kirk made an interrogative noise. "Trade-?"

"Old in-joke. Nevermind, dude."

Julian and Kirk shared a glance that they had shared many a time over Lewis,
then Julian shrugged. "…Right. I'll, uh, go give this to Allison then."

Allison gave him a sly grin and an appraising up-and-down when she answered
the door, despite her obvious tiredness. "Damn, Julian." she drawled. "You
know how to make a girl feel better."

He stroked a strand of blonde hair tidily behind her ear and they shared a
little kiss. "Sorry, this is business." he handed over the shirt. "Can you
lock that up? Don't look at what it's got wrapped up in it."

She frowned at it. "Sure, but you wanna explain why?"

"It's the _Huh_. If you study it, it seems to just… fascinate you. We thought
it'd be a good idea to leave it in your care seeing as it hasn't affected you
yet. Until we know what it is and if it's related to the OmoAru dying out, you
know?"

"I follow." She took the object and vanished into her room to lock it away as
requested. "You want the shirt back?"

"I'll just print another one."

"Coulda just printed a bag for it, you know?" Allison pointed out. She
reappeared at the door and leered at him. "Not that I'm complaining about you
turning up at my door shirtless."

"It was easier this way." He shrugged.

She made an appreciative noise. "Mmm, works for me. Just don't let Xiu see
you, she'll catch fire."

"You think?"

"Girl's had a five year dry spell, and… call it a hunch, I don't think she was
getting any before then, either."

He leaned against the door frame, folding his arms. "And how long's your dry
spell been?" he asked, enjoying the way she looked down at his upper arms and
started to breathe a little quicker.

"Too damn long."

"Just say the word." He grinned.

"I told you, Julian, we're not having sex."

"There're alternatives to sex." he said, slipping his hand around her lower
back and pulling her out of the room slightly, pelvis to pelvis.

She met his gaze with a cocky smile, draping her arms over his shoulders. "Got
something in mind, Etsicitty?"

He glanced up and down the quarters deck to make sure that they were alone
then leaned in and murmured "I know my ABCs…"

She laughed, but bit her lip and took another good look at him. "Mister '_Six
Years Alone_' knows that trick, huh?"

Julian's confidence stalled and entered a tailspin. "Well, uh… I know _of_
it…"

Allison giggled, but her lip-bite intensified. She checked up and down the
deck herself, and then grabbed his belt buckle and pulled him into her room.

"Alright, Mister Smooth. Show me."

"Well this is fucking boring…"

Kirk shook his mane in irritation. Lewis always got restless when he had
nothing to do. "How long until the sandstorm abates?"

"Told you dude, weather sats are fried. Could be five minutes, could be five
months, could be there's a second storm five hours behind this one. I've got a
bot watching out for a working sat."

"So, you're not actually doing anything right now?

"Oh, don't say it dude…"

Kirk snorted at him. "An hour's exercise every day, Lewis. You biologically
_need_ it"

"_Like fuck I do…_" Lewis grumbled, but he stood up anyway, stretching and
groaning as his spine popped in three places.

"You see? Your species isn't meant to sit still for long periods."

"Hey, I'm going, jeez…"

Shipboard gear was gym clothing anyway, so he didn't need to bother with
changing until _after_ he was all sweaty, so that was one upside.

The second upside to today's gym session turned out to be Xiu, stretching
against the wall to the point that her ankle was higher than her head and
_damn_ was that an easy sight for the eyes. He picked the multigym and sat
down, less interested in doing his mandatory workout properly than he was in
having a good view.

"Shouldn't you warm up properly?" she asked.

"This _is_ a warm-up." he replied, setting the resistance-based machine to its
lowest setting. "I fucking hate exercise…"

"Yeah?" She grimaced slightly as she hugged her leg and held it as close to
her torso as she could for a three-count.

"You can't tell me you _enjoy_ that shit? That looks uncomfortable as fuck."

"_This_ bit sucks." she agreed. "But it stops me from aching all over when I'm
done."

"This going to be your regular exercise slot?" He asked as she changed legs.
He'd make a mental note if it was.

"No, I usually do mine - _rrrgh_ \- before breakfast."

Well that killed it. Exercise might be bearable if he had a gym-buddy like
Xiu, but the only known force in the galaxy that could drag Lewis out of bed
that early in the morning was a quarter of a pig, a gallon of coffee, and
waffles with enough syrup to launch a yacht on. He hauled down on the bar in
what he thought was a preacher curl. "So why're you here now?" He asked.

"I was going to go back to my room and listen to my messages." Xiu said. "But…
um… Allison's room is next to mine and, uh…" Her face went a brilliant
scarlet. "Never mind."

"Hey, what?"

"Julian's in there…"

Lewis blinked. "No shit? Shit, did they get loud?"

_Damn_ the girl could blush. If there'd been a world championship, Xiu would
have taken the gold, easy. By incinerating the competition with her glow.
"Little bit." she squeaked the words in a way that suggested they were
understatement.

She dropped her leg back down and bounced on her toes a few time. Lewis
lowered his head slightly to give the impression that he was working the
machine, hoping to ogle without being caught ogling.

"Uh, you're… not doing that right." she pointed out after a few seconds.

Lewis just shrugged. "You grab the thing, you pull on the thing, right?"

"_Hǎo shāng xīn…_" she muttered. "No wonder you hate exercise."

"You saying I don't enjoy it because I'm doing it wrong?"

She beckoned with one hand. "Come on, get up. I'll show you."

Lewis shrugged and did so. "Okay, what are we doing?"

"_Taiji_."

"Tai Chi? I thought that was for, like, old people in the park!"

"It keeps you fit and strong." she said.

"Moving all slow? Pull the other one."

She rolled her eyes. "Copy me."

Lewis snorted, but did so to the best of his ability, imperfectly mimicking
the slow sweep of her arms and feet. His muscles started to burn within
seconds. "What the shit…?"

She paused mid-motion, at the most awkward spot - he felt like he was about to
fall over. His leg was shaking from trying to hold him up. "You're still doing
it wrong." she said. "Move your right foot back a little and try to balance
your weight between both feet."

Lewis grunted and shoved his foot back a bit and the precarious feeling and
shake both vanished. The burn in his muscled faded a little. "Hey, what…?"

"Now you're doing it right."

"Okay… That's cool, but… no pain no gain, right?"

"My ballet teacher used to say that being strong is no good if you're wasting
half that strength with bad form." Xiu said.

"I… guess?"

She laughed. "I had this trouble with my brother Wei. Uh… it's like if you
have a really fancy, shiny new computer but you're running an old game on it.
Most of that power gets wasted. Follow me?"

Understanding dawned. "Oh! I get you!"

Xiu started moving again. "It works both ways." she said. "If you do it right
it feels easier but you're actually getting the most out of it. Doing it wrong
feels harder and doesn't do as much for you."

Lewis was surprised to find that he was actually enjoying himself, and not
just because of the company. Xiu was a patient teacher, happy to go at his
pace, and the way she explained what they were doing drove home a point he had
hitherto missed - that exercise didn't have to be dumb, mindless repetition.
That there was room for using your brain in there as well, thinking about it.
Physical intelligence.

Maybe he had a reason to get out of bed early, now…

"Fascinating. I wonder what relevance it has to our search?"

Vedreg didn't fit in the flight deck, but the corridor outside was capable of
unfolding a bench from the deck for him to rest on, and it was from this that
he was conversing with Kirk, sipping a surprisingly small glass of water
considering his mass.

"Best not to speculate ahead of our evidence." Kirk cautioned. "Lewis could be
right, it could just be a drug of some kind."

"True, though the whole concept of a drug was a completely foreign one to me
prior to the arrival of humanity."

"Likewise, and if ever there were fields where we were likely to learn of
their existence, customs and legal representation aboard a major trade station
would be them, even if they were perfectly legal."

"And yet the OmoAru have been in decline since before the human World Wars."
Vedreg noted. "Tell me, do you think it a plausible possibility?"

"All too plausible." Kirk shivered. "Even with that idea in mind, that this
could be the object responsible for the decline and fall of their
civilization, I _still_ want to go down to Allison's quarters and ask her for
another look, and I was only exposed to its effects for a few minutes."

"And Lewis and Julian?"

Kirk turned and checked the tracking systems for a second. "Lewis is in the
gym with Xiu, and appears to be rather happy about it." he said. "Julian has…
not left Allison's quarters yet, though I expect that's just sex."

Vedreg pig-snorted a Guvnurag chortle, pulsing hyacinth. "So matter-of-fact."
he commented.

"Why shouldn't I be? I have no reason to be squeamish about the sexuality of
another species, especially one so driven by it as humans are." he glanced at
the monitor where Xiu was correcting Lewis' posture. "And Gaoians." he added.

A curious cocktail of intellectual pink and uncertain blue swept up Vedreg's
body. "She's _not_ Gaoian." he pointed out.

"Biologically? No." Kirk agreed. "But concepts we have traditionally
considered - for good reason - to be absolutes, appear to be more fluid for
humans. Gender, mating proclivities… Species - purely as a mental and cultural
construct - is on that list."

"How can _species_ be a fluid concept?"

Kirk just shrugged. It wasn't a native gesture to Rrrrtktktkp'ch, and he knew
that Vedreg was astute enough to get that subtle point. "It's all visible in
Xiu's file, if you know what to look for." he said. "There are a lot of…
transition zones in her life. Places where she has straddled two things that
would quite reasonably seem to be separate. They're quite obvious from the
elevated perspective that I enjoy, but humans have remarkable blind spots
about their own motives and experiences."

"Do they indeed?" The translation gave Vedreg a wry, ironic tone.

Kirk snorted, catching the thrust of Vedreg's subtle jab. "I know who I am."
he asserted, and pointed at the screen with his mechanical arm. "_They_
don't."

"And is that what draws you to them?"

"What draws me to them is that they've got to become _somebody_, and I want to
make sure that said somebody can coexist with my own people."

Vedreg rumbled, and a dark pink, almost purple, showed itself on his body.

"Suppose the Hierarchy are right." he said, suddenly. "Suppose that's not
possible. What then?"

"Then by helping them escape the quarantine I've doomed my own species and
several others." Kirk said. "But I'll fight to the last to prove that the
Hierarchy are wrong."

"Good. Then I think it's time I put you in touch with Six."

_"Allahu Akbar._"

Amir was standing in the middle of the common area, barefoot and wearing clean
clothes, addressing a little speck of blue holographic light that was hovering
a few meters in front of him.

He lowered his hands gently onto his thighs and spoke again. The words were
quiet, but clear - Xiu could only hear him because the rest of the ship was
quiet.

"_Subhaanak-Allaahumma, wa bihamdika, wa tabaarakasmuka, wa ta'aalaa jadduka,
wa laa ilaaha ghayruka_."

She turned to Lewis and whispered. "What's he doing?"

"_Salat._" Lewis replied, quietly. "Five times a day. It's, like, super
important to him, so I just let him get it out his system."

"…I'd forgotten."

"Forgotten?"

"Prayer. I forgot that people even do things like…" Xiu indicated Amir, who
was now bent at the waist, muttering something. "…this."

"He's always done this." Lewis replied. "Had me program that little light for
him. It points towards Earth."

Xiu stared at it. "That's where Earth is?"

"Yep."

"How far?"

"Uh… as, like, the crow flies?" Lewis tapped on a wall console and pulled up
the navigation display. "Looks like… about sixty thousand light years." He
tapped something, and nodded. "Give or take a couple thousand."

"…how long would it take if we flew there right now?"

Lewis looked upwards and his lips moved as he performed some mental
calculations. "About… roughly, uh… seven weeks? Bit more than? But we wouldn't
be going as the crow flies."

"Why not?"

"Well, A: the galactic core's in the way. Black holes, exploding stars,
radiation, really bad hair days. Can't go that way. B: Interstellar dust and
gas leaves a charge on the hull. Let it build up too much and eventually…
_ZAP_!"

Xiu jumped, and Amir shot an annoyed glance in their direction. Lewis raised
an apologetic palm at him.

Xiu swallowed "_Zap_?" she squeaked.

"Yep." Lewis replied in a quieter tone. "Like a fuckin' bug zapper, with you,
me and the whole crew as the bugs."

Xiu shivered.

"So, the ID and the CA both run these lane-clearing fleets who sweep a path
through the dust, and that's a spacelane." Lewis continued. "They form a ring
around the galaxy, through what's called the '_Temperate World Formation
Zone_'. By spacelane, we're more like three months from home, and this is a
way fast ship. Like, zoom! And you can _really_ open up on those spacelanes,
too."

"How fast?"

"Dunno. Kirk reckons she can do upwards of a thousand kilolights on a really
long stretch if we don't mind wear and tear on the power core. A million times
the speed of light. Usually we just cruise at about half that."

"That's…" Xiu wanted to say '_fast_' but the numbers were purely academic,
incomprehensible.

"Fastest ship in the galaxy, we reckon." Lewis patted the _Sanctuary_ proudly.
"Course, we don't need to fly back to Earth. We've got the Jump Array."

"All that distance and I can just… step home, huh?"

"Pretty much."

Xiu shook her head and watched as Amir turned his head left and right,
speaking gently, and then stood.

"That's going to be so weird…" she said.

It had been far, far too long since Allison had had the opportunity to enjoy
the feeling of skin-on-skin contact along pretty much the whole length of her
body.

It was made a little unusual by the smooth plastic of Julian's prosthetic
foot, but other than that…

Other than that, the sensations of his body warm and firm against her back and
buttocks, of his right arm under her head and his right hand cupping her
breast, of his left hand trailing lazily up and down the shallow, athletic
curve of her flank were _sublime_. As were the kisses he occasionally placed
on her shoulder.

As had been the… well. What Julian may have lacked in experience, he more than
made up for in attentiveness and enthusiasm. The way he'd communicated, the
way he'd eagerly let her teach him how to use his tongue, the way he'd
listened to what she wanted as his fingers played inside her, the taste of his
cock, the orgasms plural, his expressions, his moans and…

Generally the whole general _everything_.

Especially the way he'd kept his head and said "no" when she'd literally
begged him to fuck her. That part, she really appreciated.

She became aware that his hand had stopped moving, and squirmed slightly to
glance over her shoulder and check that he was still awake. He wasn't.

She gave it a decent interval and then carefully extracted herself from her
little-spoon position to go take care of the inevitable post-orgasmic
ablutions, spin through the shower and put on some clean clothing. Sex - or
the next best thing - had always left her energized and hungry.

Lewis and Amir were using the galley as well, and while Amir cleared his
throat and pretended to not really notice her presence, Lewis' grin bordered
on being a leer.

Of course, on a ship this small there were no secrets, were there?

"Sleep well?" Lewis tried to make the question sound nonchalant and failed
dismally.

"I had fucking amazing sex, thank you for asking." she snarled, nettled. Lewis
grimaced and focused on his food, ears going pink. "What's that you're
eating?" she asked.

Xiu's voice lofted out of the kitchen. "_Zhēngyu!_"

"Huh?"

"Fish!" Xiu poked her head out of the kitchen wearing the biggest smile
Allison had yet seen on her. "This is amazing!" she enthused. "You have actual
_Earth_ food in here! I just had to make something."

"You love to cook, huh?"

Xiu ducked her head sheepishly, apparently failing to notice that the gesture
was a Gaoian one. "Always have." she admitted. "Besides, you've got to do
something to help the ration balls go down, right?"

"Too true." Allison selected a shred of white fish-flesh from the plate and
sampled it.

A second later, half the fish was on her plate, prompting a chuckle from Amir.
"That was my reaction." he said.

"_Damn_ girl! _Mff_!"

Xiu giggled. "You like?"

Allison nodded, masticating enthusiastically, "_Thiff iff amaffing."_ she
swallowed. "Best thing I've had in my mouth since, uh…"

Okay, _now_ the awkwardness happened, especially when Lewis grinned like he
was the Coyote and he'd just caught the Road Runner. "Half an hour ago?
_Yagh!_"

His scream was in response to Allison rolling her eyes and dumping his glass
of water in his lap. When Amir laughed, Lewis did the same to him, and a good-
natured three-way scuffle broke out that only ended when Xiu exclaimed "Hey,
watch the fish!"

The boys sheepishly helped straighten the table and then sloped off in search
of dry clothes. Xiu snorted a little laugh. "Males," she said. She apparently
didn't notice the mistake until Allison arched an eyebrow at her. "Uh…men!
Boys! Ugh, _damn_ it!"

"…You okay?"

"I'm… adjusting." Xiu replied. "It's so weird being around other humans
again."

"Spent too long with the raccoon people, huh?" Allison asked.

"I keep thinking in Gaoian." Xiu said. "And thinking _like_ a Gaoian." She
scowled. "I just _said_ that in Gaoian!"

"You did? I didn't… oh, right, the ship's translator."

"Yeah." Xiu sat down and sampled some of the fish for herself, breaking into a
broad smile. "Oooh, this is nice." she purred. "No more pureed bug guts."

"Uh, _ew_?!"

"_Nava_ paste. It's an ingredient." Xiu explained. "It's actually kinda nice
but… yeah, _ew_."

They shared a grin, which turned into Xiu apparently thinking of something and
abruptly going pink.

"What?"

"Uh, nothing."

"No, what?" Allison pressed.

"Just… wow. Sex. I've never…" The pink turned to a brilliant scarlet.

"Got taken before you had the chance, huh?"

Xiu nodded, and ate some of her fish. "It's… Mama and Papa were always warning
me off boys." she said. "'_Wait for marriage, find a nice doctor or engineer.
Chinese, of course._' You know: Asian parents." She laughed, and toyed with
her food. "As if it's the most special thing ever…"

"And the Gaoians?"

Xiu shrugged. "They were always very… matter-of-fact about it." she said. "You
always knew who had just arranged a mating contract and they were… very open
about talking about it."

"A _contract_?"

"Yeah." Xiu wobbled her head. "Sounds cold doesn't it?"

"Just a little." Allison agreed.

"It's not!" Xiu hastened to defend them. "Well… no, maybe it can be, a little.
But with some of them you could see it was more like…"

She giggled at a memory. "There's this one male, Regaari? He's, like, Gaoian
James Bond. _Really_ cool, very handsome. So I'm told."

"Hard to tell under all that fur."

"I think the fur is what they look at." Xiu shrugged. "I don't really know.
But even the mother-supreme was like '_if I was younger…_'"

Allison laughed. "Okay, so they're not so cold after all."

"No." Xiu's smile faded. "I just… wow. That's an option now. I could… if I
wanted, if I found… Wow."

Allison put her fork down. "Honey, listen to me." she said. "Julian and I took
_forever_ to sort our shit out, and we needed it. I'm telling you as a friend,
you're going to need time as well, or you'll just wind up getting hurt."

Xiu sighed. "You sound like Yulna…"

"I hope that's a compliment?"

"Yeah, it is." Xiu nodded. "You could always count on Momma Yulna to tell you
what you needed to be told, even if you didn't want to hear it."

"Well damn, there goes my party-girl image."

Their conversation ended with the return of the freshly-changed boys. Lewis
immediately noticed the lingering traces of blush on Xiu's face, but glanced
at Allison, saw her expression, and clearly decided that discretion was the
better part of dry pants.

"Sandstorm's clearing." he said instead. "We should be landing soon. There's
another storm about two days out though."

"We'll need to actually _land_ this time, rather than hovering." Amir said.
"She'll need to be properly battened down and anchored. Should take an hour or
so."

"I'll… go wake Julian." Allison stood. "You guys okay to clean up?"

_"They_ can." Xiu said firmly, folding her arms when Lewis and Amir protest
"Hey, I cleaned up as I went, so there's not much."

"What are you going to do?" Allison asked, as the boys grumbled their way into
the kitchen.

"I've got mail."

There were, as Julian had said, some messages waiting for her. Four, to be
exact - one each from Ayma, Regaari and the Mother-Supreme, and a letter from
her family.

She opened the message from Giymuy first. The Mother-Supreme was seated at her
desk, and gave a warm expression to the camera.

"_Where to begin?_" she asked, rhetorically.

"_I think as a leader and politician, I am better placed to understand you
than many others. The life of the Mother-Supreme shares with the life of a
human Sister the factor that we will both always be outsiders, however much we
are embraced. I have to think for all the females, and all the males too. That
is not an instinct that comes naturally."_

_"For you, however, I suspect the instinct is as natural as breath, and it is
one that I think our species will need to learn to emulate if we are to thrive
in interstellar society but… ah, forgive me. I'm rambling."_

_"You are missed. I understand why you left our planet, and why you abandoned
Ayma and Regaari, and I only refrained from asking you to stay because I knew
it would be fruitless. Your protective instinct is as powerful as any
Mother's, and you have the insight to know when you yourself are the worst
threat. I truly would have valued your counsel, but I would have valued it for
the same reason that I could never have it."_

She paused, and changed tack a bit.

_"There is a monument to Triymin, and all the other taken Gaoians now. I
thought you would like to know that. The revelation of what her Mother did to
"save" the other cubs has prompted much introspection, and something of a
schism. We are all still Sisters of course, but… things have been difficult.
There is something of a swell of opinion that welcoming you into the Clan was
a mistake. Some Mothers who never met you are accusing you of having poisoned
us with alien ideas. These are trying times for an old female."_

_"Then again, they are trying times for a young female too, are they not? But
you are strong enough to get through them, Sister Shoo. And you will always
have a home on Gao. Remember that._"

Xiu was still mulling over the Mother-Supreme's meaning when _Sanctuary_ shook
and a dull note rang throughout its decks, followed by Amir's voice. "_We're
landed. All hands outside to batten down._"

She stood up and let herself out, glad to have something to do. She really
didn't feel ready for the other messages yet.

The business of lashing down _Sanctuary_ was a serious one. Huge though she
was, and alien-tech thrusters that required no reaction mass notwithstanding,
the realities of power-to-weight ratio still existed, and _Sanctuary_ was
designed to pull fierce acceleration even at sublight, relying on her giant
core's power output to keep the crew happy and healthy at 20G or more.

The result of that was that she was light for her size. In the high winds
expected to come sweeping down the valley over the next few days, she would
slide or even be picked up and thrown unless _securely_ anchored.

Kirk, Lewis and Amir were on one side of the ship. Julian, Xiu and Allison on
the other, firing cables across her hull using a modified kinetic-pulse
weapon. One person to retrieve and hold the cable's end, one person to crank
it taut, the third to operate a compressed-gas gun which fired an anchoring
peg into the bedrock, which Kirk had informed them would typically have been
operated by a team of four armed with a lifter and a heavy stabilising frame.

Julian just carried it, leaning on it heavily to hold back the recoil. Each
time it fired, the heavy '_Chunk!_' sound it produced pulsed right through
their bodies and produced a donut of airborne dust.

Xiu broke the silence after the third anchor was in and they'd found their
rhythm. "So… Julian, do you mind if I ask you a question?"

"Shoot."

"I've never heard a surname like Etsicitty before…"

Julian laughed softly. "Not a lot of people have. It's Navajo."

"You're Navajo?"

"Grampa is." Julian shrugged it off. "I'm not."

'_Chunk!_'

Allison hefted their line launcher, checked that her feet weren't caught in a
loop of cable, steadied herself and fired. The line described a graceful arc
over _Sanctuary_'s back.

"How does that work?" she asked

"Well Grampa went to prison for resisting the draft. When he got out he went
to an anti-war protest where he met my Gramma and they settled in Clearwater
county, Minnesota."

There was a tug on the line, which meant that the other end was attached, so
Xiu started to crank on it.

Julian grinned. "Think my Dad was a bit of an accident." he confided. "And,
y'know, interracial couple in the seventies, white girl and a '_redskin_'…" He
waved a hand, dismissing the bigotry of yesteryear. "Dunno if things were a
bit more relaxed by the time I came along, or if it was just, y'know, '_Well,
at least he's HALF white…_'"

There was a call on the radio. "_Heads up!"_ and the line from the other side
came over, Bouncing in the dirt a few meters away. Allison retrieved it just
as Julian set the gun and fired the next anchor into the rock.

'_Chunk!_'

"Grampa wanted me to learn his people's ways but…" Julian shrugged, massaging
the shock of the recoil out of his hands. "They're _his_ people, I guess. I'm
not really Navajo myself, I don't feel that…" he waved his hands. "I dunno."

"Kinship?" Xiu suggested.

"Yeah, that's it. The bond's just not there for me." They'd gone along to some
kind of a nation… _thing_ at one point, and what had struck Julian hard was
that he'd felt like a white guy and had been largely treated as one. That had
disappointed Gramp Etsi, but it had at least persuaded him to just let Julian
be Julian.

"Doesn't that make you feel sad?" Xiu asked.

"Why should it?" Julian asked. "Maybe I never went down to New Mexico with the
old man to learn the ways of my ancestors or whatever but we still had a great
time. He taught me hunting, camping, fishing… yeah. I enjoyed it, so I became
a park ranger. I used to spend five days a week out in the North Country,
keeping tabs on the wildlife. Deer, birds, fish, bears, you name it." He
shrugged, watching Xiu wind the crank. "Guess the Corti thought I was
impressive because they snatched me up gear and all and stuck me on planet
Nightmare."

"And your Grandfather?" Xiu asked him.

"Still going." Julian smiled fondly. "Same old Grampa, with his dungarees and
his robusto premium cigars… pretty damn strong for an old man, too."

Xiu decided that the line was taut enough and plucked it, producing a bass
note. "Is that all of them?"

"That's all of them. Just need to head topside and make sure they're on top of
the steel plates so they don't cut into the pressure skin and heat
dissipators. Care to join me?"

Xiu nodded, apparently pleased to be invited.

"I'm heading inside." Allison said. "Kirk wanted the airlock seals tested and
he can't open the hatch himself."

Julian snorted. "Fucking class five species…" he teased, and grabbed her round
the waist for a quick, romantic kiss.

When it was done, Xiu was awkwardly looking at anything _other_ than him or
Allison..

"So, how do we get up top?" she asked as Allison slipped away and jogged off
in the direction of the larboard airlock. Julian just turned and folded his
arms, smiling faintly as he stood below the rungs recessed into the side of
the ship until she noticed them.

"…Oh."

It was an easy climb in Aru's modest gravity, but Julian had never exactly
been thrilled by heights. _Sanctuary_ was classified as a modestly-sized
luxury yacht, but that still translated to being forty meters above the ground
at the top, buffeted by the eddies that were bouncing back and forth between
the two sandstorms like a puppy unable to choose between two tennis balls.

Xiu seemed to be just as uncomfortable with the winds and altitude as he was.
Moderate gravity or not, a fall from that height would kill, and when she held
out a hand for him to help her balance he grabbed it without thinking.

Her hand was surprisingly hard and roughened from work. Different to
Allison's. Allison had plenty of grip strength, but her hands were softer,
colder and her fingers were more slender. Xiu's hand was warm, and
unconsciously solid. Feminine, but sturdy.

He tried not to notice.

"So, uh… what about your mother's side of the family?" she asked, raising her
voice to be heard over the air currents, clearly wanting to bolster her own
confidence or distract herself with conversation.

"Gran-gran was Ojibwe. She never talked much about my grandfather, 'cuz he
was, uh, never part of Mom's life. All I know about him is he was Dutch…"

"How are your parents now?"

"Dad died of cancer when I was, like, six and Mom…left. Grampa and Gramma
raised me."

"Oh… I'm sorry."

"It's okay." Julian kicked a cable and gave a satisfied grunt when it didn't
move.

"Do you know where your mom is now?"

"Yeah. After Dad died she kinda helped his brother through it and…well, I've
got two sisters in Holland I never met." Julian shrugged. "She's okay. But by
the time she was ready to look after anyone again I was thirteen or so. Seemed
easier just to stay with Grampa and Gramma."

Xiu checked the cable nearest to her. "This one looks okay, I think…" she
guessed. He nodded, trusting her judgement.

"What about your folks?" He asked her. "Five years is a long time, think
they'll have changed much?"

"I'd…" she hesitated, then gave him an embarrassed smile and a shrug, flicking
wind-wild hair out of her face "…don't know. I hope not."

Julian nodded sympathy, but smiled. "I hope not too." he said. "But… word of
advice? You should probably brace yourself. Did you read your messages yet?"

She shook her head no. "Only one of them."

"Cool. Well, you'll have plenty of time while the sandstorm passes over."

There was a lull in the wind and Xiu cautiously let go of his hand to
straighten and look at the scenery. It was, admittedly, spectacular - the
river was a malachite road, its forks and junctions winding down from distant
brown mesas beneath a turquoise sky.

"Incredible." she said, taking a step towards it. "We could almost be
somewhere on Earth, couldn't we?"

Julian nodded, though he wasn't really listening: he was too busy admiring a
completely different view. On autopilot, his mouth agreed with her. "We could,
yeah."

"Like… Monument Valley?"

She turned around and Julian realized where he'd been looking. So did she.

"Uh…" Mentally punishing himself, he took in the _correct_ view this time
while Xiu hastily turned her face back towards the landscape. Her ears were
bright pink. "No, not like… Monument Valley's more red, and there's lots of
green. This is more like… Argentina, maybe. More yellow and brown." he said.

He checked the last cable. "And…" he cleared his throat. "…Uh, we're as
anchored as we're ever gonna get, I reckon. May as well head indoors."

Xiu just nodded without turning around.

Floundering for conversation, Julian hit on the first thing that came to mind.
"It's… my turn to cook tonight. You okay with a good steak?"

Xiu turned and gawped at him, blush forgotten. "_Actual_ steak?" she asked.
"Like… beef?"

"Yep, and I can't cook anything else worth a damn, but my steaks? Oh, I can
cook a steak alright." Julian found his confidence again and grinned. "I can
cook a _damn_ good steak."

"Wow." Xiu said. "Uh… medium rare, please?"

"That's how I take my steak too." Julian agreed. "Anything else is-"

"-An insult to the cow." Xiu finished for him.

They beamed at each other for a few seconds before the same thought struck
both of them at once and they lapsed into simultaneous, mutual awkwardness.

"We should, uh-" she began.

"-get off this roof." He finished.

"Yeah. Before the storm arrives."

"Right. Don't want to get blown off… uh… I mean-"

"No, uh… Well. No. Um… after you?"

Julian was right. His steak was amazing. But the real pleasure for hadn't been
in eating it, but in watching him make it.

It wasn't an eye-candy moment. It was a _human_ moment. Julian seemed to turn
off some of his defenses in the kitchen, claiming it as his own, putting some
music on and spinning around it in a slow but efficient bustle. He didn't
clean up after himself as he went, just dumped everything in the sink. It was
a messy and male approach to food preparation but…

But no Gaoian would have ever listened to Breaking Benjamin, or nodded in time
to the music, or sang along just loud enough for her to hear that he _was_
singing along in a surprisingly good singing voice, punctuated by the sizzle
of skillet and the clatter of plates and seasonings as he worked on his
masterpiece.

"_♪♪…Holding on too tight… breathe the breath of life… so I can leave this…♫"_

"Look but don't touch, girlfriend."

Xiu jumped. Allison smiled at her. "He's taken, remember?" She asked.

Xiu remembered to shake her head rather than shimmy it like Ayma. "That's not
it." she said, which was a bit of a lie, but not much of one so it didn't
count.

Allison tilted her head. "What, then?"

"Just… _Humans_."

"Hmm?"

"You, him, Lewis, Amir. The music, the kitchen, the food… Humans. Earth."

Allison made an understanding noise and put an arm round her shoulder. "Making
you homesick?"

"Actually… No. It makes me feel like… Like when I dreamed of home."

She smiled at Allison and wiped away a tear. "This is what it felt like."

In the kitchen, Julian's playlist had changed tracks and took a dizzying
detour into Johnny Cash. "♫…_Well he must thought that it was quite a joke,
and it got a lot o' laughs from a lot o' folks. Seems I had to fight my whole
life through…♪_"

Allison directed a sly smirk at Julian as he picked up the volume a bit. "He's
got an eclectic taste in music, doesn't he?"

"Very varied." Xiu agreed, covering her smile.

"Come on, help a girl set the table?"

A minute later, Xiu dropped the knives from giggling at the enthusiastic
bellow of "MY NAME IS SUE! HOW DO YOU DO?!" that drifted out of the kitchen.

In the dark and quiet of the night cycle, _Sanctuary_ creaked like a clipper
at sea as her shields deflected the pelting sand outside. From without, the
view would almost certainly have been spectacular. Forcefields tended to react
colorfully with airborne particulates, spitting and sparking as the charge
built and grounded itself, glowing all the colours of the rainbow and others
besides.

Inside, the only hint of the raging outside forces was the occasional whine as
the power systems intelligently redirected the power reserves and increased
the reactor output to match them, and the odd structural creak as the shield
emitters mounted on _Sanctuary_'s outer skin transmitted part of the huge
forces they were emitting into the ship's structural components.

In theory, those forcefields were more than up to the task of keeping Kirk's
ship securely in contact with the ground, but the humans always seemed to feel
more comfortable with steel than with photons even though, technically, a
forcefield was built to duplicate exactly the kind of electrostatic forces
that gave steel cables or bulkheads their strength.

Still. Redundancy didn't hurt and if it set the paranoid Deathworlders' minds
at ease…

Rrrrtktktkp'ch really didn't need much sleep next to most species. While
humans took a solid six to eight hours a night, and the Guvnurag needed a
whole day every three or four days, Rrrrtk got by on quick, regular power
naps. In fact, the Domain's standard unit of time known as the _Rik_ was
derived from the average duration of the Rrrrtk sleep phase, though nowadays
given a standard definition based on… something to do with hydrogen, if Kirk
remembered correctly.

Not being able to summon random little facts like that at will was one of the
few things he was finding he missed about having cerebral implants. He
certainly hadn't noticed any decline in his logical faculties or powers of
recall since their removal. Not for the big stuff. Maybe mental mathematics
was taking a while longer, and he wasn't able to recall trivia, but the
important activity seemed mostly unhindered.

The problem was that the disparity between his sleeping habits and those of
his crew left long stretches of the night where the only available company was
Vedreg. Kirk and Vedreg may have been old friends, but theirs was a
relationship built on mutual esteem and shared goals, rather than actually
having much in common as people.

Tonight, however, he had something to do, and was glad to be left alone to do
it. The less his friends and crewmates knew about some of his plans, the
better.

By Rrrrtk standards, the engineering access conduit which ringed the "poles"
of _Sanctuary_'s reactor was a crawlspace, tight and claustrophobic. Vedreg
would simply not have been able to fit into it. Humans, Gaoians and Corti, on
the other hand, could have strolled down it, though they would have needed a
stepladder to access some of the systems that lined the hemispherical
conduit's ceiling.

Kirk stooped underneath an environmental duct, stepped fastidiously over a
neat bundle of high-capacity data cables, squeezed between two computer racks,
and finally found what he was after at the apex of the conduit, immediately in
front of the first of his ship's seven huge sublight thrusters. It was mounted
in a little pedestal which doubled as a superconducting power bus of peerless
capacity, designed to shunt as much power as the huge reactor could generate
straight into the seemingly innocuous little oblong of sealed technology that
was _Sanctuary_'s Corti Black-Box Drive.

Without knowing how to open one, tampering with a Black-Box drive was a recipe
for it blowing up in the would-be opener's face, and not in a small way,
either: The Corti had an unsubtle approach to copyright protection.

Kirk, however, now knew how to open it.

Fabricating the necessary tool had been trivial in fact. All it did was
deliver a permutation of extremely precise electrical currents to thirty-two
of the drive's three thousand microscopic terminals.

That set of possible combinations was already absurdly vast all by itself, but
when one factored in the need to deliver excruciatingly precise electrical
currents _to_ that correct combination, and the fact that the combination and
required currents were changed periodically as a safeguard against simple
dissemination of the information, then a value emerged that made the total
quantity of subatomic particles in the whole of the visible universe seem
utterly trivial.

Correctly guessing the combination was effectively impossible - If an
enterprising scientist were to fire a neutrino in an entirely random direction
and then guess at which specific atom it would eventually hit, then a
successful prediction would still be tens of thousands of _orders of
magnitude_ more likely than a correct guess at the black box combination.

No wonder it had supposedly never been opened by an unauthorized user.

With the right key, however, the two sides shot outwards on rails with a
_snap!_ and the top hinged open.

Kirk reflected wryly that if life in the galaxy had taught him anything by
now, it was that working technology simply never had shiny special-effects
deep inside them. The occasion demanded a bottled singularity pulsing
ominously inside a glass cylinder, or some other such wondrous artefact.
Instead, he was looking at a circuit board much like any other. It was foolish
to be disappointed.

Nevertheless, it felt like something of an anticlimax.

The modifications he read off a standard tablet computer were the work of
minutes. Connect, load, copy-paste, run. Close the box, remove the key.

Back in the comfort of his quarters, he settled onto the bed, folding his legs
underneath him, and bade the room load a text chat interface and connect via
the newly established protocol under his name.

**++Syst§m N♦tif&gt;c■t?♦n: Us§r ???? h■s j♦in§d th§ &lt;error: undefined exception&gt;++**

**++Welcome User ????++**

**++0025++: This is getting ridiculous. That's the second one this cycle.**

**++0007++: Working on it.**

**++0034++: Without apparent progress.**

**++0007++: By all means you are welcome to volunteer for debugging software that has existed longer than you have. For now, I'll just kick this spurious "user" again.**

**++System Notif■■■■■■■ &lt;Error&gt;**

**&lt;Error&gt;**

**&lt;Redirecting: Subnet Mask ????????? Port ?????&gt;**

**++System Notification: Welcome to the Cabal.++**

**++????++: By "working on it" I hope you mean that you draw closer to a solution that will allow our meatspace guests to connect directly to the Cabal. Every time one of them logs into the primary relay is a potential security failure.**

**++????++: So long as "Seven" remains in charge of it…**

**++????++: I know for a fact that Fifty is working on the problem themselves.**

**++????++: Shouldn't we be welcoming our guest?**

**++????++: You're right. Please forgive us, ah… "Jim".**

Kirk snorted, amused.

**++SELF++: Think nothing of it. I don't wish to be a liability.**

**++????++: In which case the fewer the occasions on which you connect to this channel the better, at least until we can complete the task of securing it.**

**++SELF++: That seems reasonable. Please, brief me.**

He sat back, and let the explanations roll in.

_School is exactly as Xiu remembers it. But… isn't she a little old to be back
at school?_

_No, of course not. She's sixteen. She must be sixteen because if she's not
sixteen, then she wouldn't be in school. QED._

_There aren't many people around, though. They must all be in class. She'd
better hurry._

_Xiu's locker is… number ninety-nine. She remembers that fact quite proudly.
Top row, second from the right, in the long corridor near the changing rooms.
She doesn't remember walking to it, but there it is. She opens it, and grabs
her bag._

_It bites her._

_Sharp teeth, so many teeth, too many. She flails and beats the Hunter around
the head with her free hand, trying to escape. It emerges from the locker like
a foul magic trick, like a blasphemous birth, but she manages to get her hand
free and run._

_Why is she running? Stupid question, this is a Hunter! It wants to EAT her!_

_But… she's killed dozens of Hunters, hasn't she?_

_Still she runs, though. Running, running, running, feet pounding the tiles,
her hair streaming out behind her._

_Except, she isn't scared. This isn't a chase, this is just her morning jog.
She isn't at school any more, she's running along the waterfront in Stanley
Park, enjoying the cool breeze._

_There is a sculpture of a man sitting on the rock out in the water. He looks
familiar, somehow. He winks at her and tosses her a tiny object, which she
catches._

_It's a metal ball, about the size of an apple. Somehow, looking at it, she
knows that the world is going to end, but that she can stop it from happening
if she just-_

She realised that she was dreaming, and woke up.

'_Morning_' was a concept that Corti, Gaoians and Humans held in common, and
which had become enshrined - thanks to the Corti - in interstellar
timekeeping. It had created a fortunate rhythm to the day that Xiu had been
able to exploit, and she had grown into an early-to-bed, early-to-rise routine
that was totally at odds with the nocturnal Vancouver nightlife of five years
ago, and more in line with something her mother would have approved of. She
was up well before everyone else.

Amir, it seemed, was an early riser too. He was just getting up from his
prayer mat as she emerged from the gym into the common area.

"Five times a day, huh?" she asked.

He paused in tidying the prayer mat away. "Is that a problem?" he asked,
proving that getting up early didn't automatically make you a morning person.

"No! Just… making conversation."

Amir softened and nodded, pinching his nose. "Sorry." he apologised. "I'm too
used to Lewis bickering with me over it, and he's up early today for some
reason."

"Bickering?"

Amir nodded. "He keeps trying to deconvert me. It's… obnoxious."

"Oh."

He puffed a little laugh out of his nose. "Let me guess. You think this is
strange?" he gestured to the prayer mat.

"I… don't want to argue with you, we only just met." Xiu protested.

"Seriously, though."

She hesitated. "I'd… kinda forgotten that prayer is even a thing." she
admitted.

He scoffed. "Right. The galaxy full of atheists strikes again…"

"Are you always this grouchy in the morning?"

Amir blinked, while Xiu folded her arms and channeled Momma Yulna, waiting for
the verbal slap upside his head to do its job.

"Okay." he said, finally. "You're right, sorry. Lewis just… never mind, I
shouldn't take it out on you."

"No." Xiu agreed, but smiled. "But it's okay. Galaxy full of atheists?"

"Ah, that's just Lewis' new argument." Amir dismissed it. "'_If nothing else
out there believes in God then…'_ blah, blah, you get the picture."

"Doesn't that make you wonder, though?" Xiu asked.

"Nope. Why should it? Look at all the gifts we have. We're faster, stronger,
smarter, tougher, more creative…" He turned to her. "Seriously, what's Gaoian
pop culture like?"

"Pop culture?"

"Yeah! Do they have… sports teams, rock stars? Reality TV? How about just
commercial radio? Is there a Gaoian Banksy, or Coca-Cola? What about their
phones? What's their, uh, their version of iPhone versus Android? Do they have
somebody like Arnold Schwarzenegger, or… who's the Gaoian answer to Imran
Khan?"

"I don't… Who?"

Amir wound down a little. "He's a… cricketer. A famous one, from Pakistan." He
explained

Xiu thought about it. "They have… most of that." she said, though admittedly
she had never really absorbed much of it. Perhaps the part of Gaoian pop-
culture she was most familiar with was an edutainment show for little cubs
called '_Yen Ni Wo!_', which was more-or-less the Gaoian equivalent of _Sesame
Street_, minus the muppets. She'd learned half her Gaoian from watching that
show with Myun and the cubs, though apparently it had left her with a
childlike way of speaking for some time.

"Well, they're doing better than most of the aliens then." Amir remarked. "But
I bet it's not as rich as ours, or as varied."

"If you say so." Xiu said neutrally, too offended to argue with him.

"That's my point though." Amir continued. "Look at all the gifts we have. All
the advantages. All the _blessings_. To me, it's obvious."

Xiu was rescued from having to come up with a response to that by Lewis
sticking his head through the hatch, looking frazzled and sleep-deprived.
"Hey, Xiu, could you give me a hand?"

"Sure!" she sprang to her feet, gave Amir a little wave and a smile, and
joined him. "What's up?"

"Well, I could do with some more exercise advice, but I was mostly just
rescuing you." Lewis whispered, once certain Amir was out of earshot. "Don't
get him started on that shit, seriously."

"He was okay." she said, earnestly. "He's just…passionate."

"Trust me, you give him the chance and he'll go way past passionate and into
downright fuckin' intense. '_The lady doth protest too much, methinks._',
right?"

Xiu glanced back toward the common area. Amir had sat down and from his
expression was plainly pissed off at himself. "Maybe." she agreed. "And… wow,
you quoted that correctly."

"Hey, I'm not here to be the ship's mascot!" Lewis smirked. "No false modesty,
I'm, like, one of the smartest people you'll ever meet. I know _Hamlet_. Not
really my scene, but I still know it."

Xiu blushed a little. "Sorry, I didn't meant to imply…"

"It's cool. Where I went to school, pretending to be dumb was a survival
strategy." Lewis reassured her. "But yeah, it's been a touchy subject for him
this last week or so. Used to be it never came up. Now he gets all _sharp_
real easy. Dunno if that means he's getting _more_ devout or if he's having a
crisis but it's best to just, like, avoid the subject entirely."

They reached the flight deck, where Lewis' usual nest was a riot of articles,
videos and blogs on Tai Chi.

"…You have _Internet?!_" Xiu exclaimed.

"We've got, like, a backup copy of _part_ of the Internet." Lewis said.
"Godzillabytes of it. Pretty cool, even if it's a couple months out of date."

"But you're researching what we did yesterday?"

"Yeah!" Lewis said, dropping into his chair. "I actually enjoyed myself, which
is, like, a major first for me."

"I'm glad." Xiu replied.

"I have a good teacher." Lewis told her, and grinned when she smiled at the
compliment. "I got up early to try and join you in the gym, but then…" he
waved a hand at one of his screens. "Looks like something came up overnight."

Xiu looked at what he'd indicated, seeing only incomprehensible numbers and
text. "What did?"

"Not sure, TBH," He said, actually pronouncing the abbreviation letter by
letter. He turned to that display and dragged it onto the big screen front and
center. "I've got all kinds of monitor programs and bots installed in
_Sanctuary_. This one logs power draw on the FTL." He poked a finger at the
screen, which flashed blue where his digit passed through the hologram. "I
won't bore you with, like, the Starfleet technobabble here, but TL;DR? Those
numbers are the wrong numbers."

"Wrong how?"

"Couple hours of sporadic power draw, starting in the middle of the night. Not
_big_ draw, but we're landed and powered down, the FTL shouldn't be drawing a
dang thing."

"Shouldn't we… go check it or something?"

"No point. I've got the full diagnostic right here." he waved at a screen.
"Piece of shit alien engineering doesn't log half of what it should, though.
My bots log _everything_, but the modules themselves? Eh…" He shrugged. "All I
know is, there's nothing actually _wrong_ with it, it was just drawing power
at oh-dark-thirty last night when it shouldn't."

"Still…"

"Yeah. Maybe. If it keeps happening, I guess. It could be the sandstorm for
all I know, though." He dismissed the program. "I'll keep an eye on it. I
should probably go do that exercise while I'm still fired up for it."

"Give it a bit. I need to go shower and then I'm making pancakes for
breakfast."

Lewis perked up and imitated Homer Simpson. "Mmmm… Pancakes…"

She giggled. "I'll give you a lesson afterward, if you want?"

Lewis looked like he'd been given an early birthday present. "Sounds good!" he
agreed. "See you at breakfast."

"See you at breakfast." she smiled and left him, pleased with herself for
navigating a whole conversation in English with human body language and no
screwups.

Today was definitely off to a good start.

The sandstorm took nearly a week to clear. They had been, for Lewis, six very
pleasant days. There was still the unsolved mystery of the power draw on the
FTL, but that had only happened once, and came in a distant second place to
spending time with Xiu.

Julian, however, had developed the annoying habit of warning him off. "Bad
idea." he was saying, for the third time that conversation. "Seriously."

"You said yourself, you'd like her to stay on this ship and help out, dude."
Lewis pointed out.

"I would." Julian agreed. "But **she** wants to go home."

"So, maybe if she's got somebody here she'll…"

"What, you want to make her change her mind?" Julian snorted.

"Everyone does that to everyone, bro. That's what a fucking conversation is."

Julian paused, tried to formulate a retort, and then aborted the attempt with
a shake of his head.. "…Whatever. It's still a bad idea."

Lewis choked out an exasperated noise. "Why?" he asked.

"Damaged goods. Xiu's been without healthy human contact for five years, man."

"Great! Healthy human contact's what she needs then, right?"

"_Healthy_ human contact, yes."

"Asking her out is healthy, dude! Good for the self-esteem!"

"Whose, yours or hers?" Julian asked pointedly.

Lewis folded his arms and frowned at him. "Wh-? Hers! Both! It's _human
contact_ dude, I thought you said she needed that."

"Yeah, but…" Julian flapped a hand as he hunted for the best way to phrase his
thoughts. "Drip-fed. Gradually. You don't throw a hypothermia patient straight
into one of those really hot Russian saunas."

"Dude, it's not like being _asked on a date_ is fucking hard mode. She says
yes, it's just gonna be movie night and dinner anyway, that's about all you
CAN do on this ship. She says no, cool. I can handle being turned down."

"Lewis, I spent six years alone, I know what I'm-"

"Xiu didn't!" Lewis interrupted him. "She had the Gaoians and the aliens."

"They don't count."

Lewis looked offended. "Aliens don't count? _Kirk_ of all people doesn't
count, huh?"

Julian stood his ground. "I like Kirk, I respect him. I've followed him
through a lot. But he's not human, Lewis. Alien company's nice, but humans
need humans, and it takes a while to adjust when you've gone without for that
long."

"She's adjusted to Allison just fine."

"Allison's a woman."

"Sexist, dude."

"No, _listen_." Julian was getting irritated now. "She spent those years with
_Gaoians_, and… you've seen her, a lot of the time she slips back into their
language, their expressions and mannerisms. She's gone native, man. And given
what I know of Gaoian society, that'll have primed her to connect better with
women than with men."

"Guys…"

"Sounds like a fucking good reason to give her some human contact, then."
Lewis protested, his own hackles raising.

"_Normal_ human contact! Slowly!"

"_Guys._"

"Being asked out **_is_** normal!"

"**_GUYS!_**"

Lewis' arms paused mid-outraged flail, and both of them turned to Amir, who
had turned in his chair to break up the argument.

"Lewis: Listen to the man. Julian: stop being jealous about Xiu." he said.

Julian swayed as if he'd been punched. "…Jealous?" he asked.

"…Okay, that was maybe the wrong choice of-" Amir began, but was interrupted.

"Yeah, jealous. Overprotective. Acting like you think you've got a right to
choose for her." Lewis stabbed. "And you look at her pretty much the same way
you do Allison, dude."

Amir pinched his nose "Lewis…"

Julian gaped at him. "I- _What!?_ No I don't!"

"Leave some women for the rest of us!"

"Leave some-? How fucking medieval _are_ you?" Julian stabbed back.

"Julian…"

"You're the one who thinks he's got a shot at a fucking harem, dude!"

Julian's fist bunched and his tone got _dangerous_ rather than outraged. "You
wanna watch-"

**_"GUYS!"_**

Julian and Lewis paused again. The moment of tension rang like a dropped
knife, and then Julian's hand uncoiled and his shoulders dropped as he
exhaled. "Sorry, Lewis." he said. "That was…"

"Yeah, that wasn't cool of me either, dude. I'm sorry."

The two men cooled off in silence for an awkward minute until Lewis added.
"But you do stare at her, dude."

Julian glanced back down the bridge access corridor to make sure Allison
wasn't somehow there to overhear him, then nodded, sheepishly. "It's…She's got
a shared experience with me, you know? We've both been alone for a long time.
It's nice to have somebody around here who really knows what that's like."

"In fairness, we all look at her. She's bloody gorgeous," Amir pointed out.

"Right," Julian nodded curtly. "And don't think I don't notice when you two
check out Allison, either."

"Ah, come on dude," Lewis said. "There's a difference between that and bein' a
horndog. You don't just check her out, you full-blown stare and it's not fair
on your girlfriend."

"Okay, okay!" Julian put up his hands defensively. "Just…"

"Nobody's in control of their lust, Lewis," Amir opined. "Not really."

"D'you mind not calling it '_lust_'?" Julian asked, irritated. "That makes it
sound so…"

"That's what it is, though. Infatuation, if you prefer. And Lewis is right,
it's not fair on either of them."

"It's not exactly fucking fair on me!" Julian objected. "I'm not doing this
deliberately!"

"She stares at him too, Lewis." Amir pointed out.

"Wh-? No she doesn't!" Lewis objected.

"Oh face it, she does." Amir asserted. "And why not, he's a specimen! But
she's spending time with _you."_

Julian scowled, but Lewis just looked pleased and smiled, giving him a defiant
stare. "Oh… yeah! So she is," he agreed.

"Guess she's settling for second best." Julian growled.

"Wh-?" Lewis' arrogant grin evaporated. _"Fuck you!"_

"Get in line!"

"Okay, what is _wrong_ with you two?" Amir stood up and stepped between them.
"This isn't like either of you, what's going on?"

"Just sorting out the fucking pecking order." Julian snarled.

"Alright, piss off out of my flight deck and don't come back until you've got
your head out of your arse."

Julian rounded on him, but Amir stood his ground. "Go. Cool off. We'll sort
this out later." he repeated.

Julian looked like he wanted to argue, but just made an angered sound, spun
and vanished, his angry stride all but denting the deck as he went.

"And you!" Amir rounded on Lewis. "You've been insufferable these last few
days! You're picking fights with me, with Julian, what's going on?"

"Maybe I'm just-" Lewis began, and then shook his head. "Agh, never mind. I'll
be in my cabin."

When they were both gone, Amir sat and wiped off his forehead, willing his
heart to stop pounding and forget the flash of violence that had risen in
Julian's expression for just a second.

It had been like staring down a dragon's throat and seeing a glow.

He hit a button. "Hey, Kirk? There's been a… a bit of a row up here, we should
probably talk about it."

"Jesus Christ, Etsicitty. That bag cheat on your sister or something?"

Julian laughed a little, bitter laugh and kept pounding on it. "Just working
out some frustrations." he rumbled.

"Mmm, after what we did last night I'm amazed you have any." Allison purred,
then wilted a little when this didn't seem to amuse him. "Okay, what's up?"

Julian stopped for a second. "Just… Ugh, I don't know. Nothing." He punched
the bag so hard that it rattled the ceiling beam.

"Riiight. D'you, uh, want me to leave you alone until, say, you turn
eighteen?"

He didn't stop. "Yep."

"Wow. Okay…"

She turned and was halfway out of the room when his apology exploded out of
him. "I'm sorry!"

She turned back and arched an eyebrow at him. "Yeah?"

He unwound the tape on his hands and let them slither to the floor. "I'm
sorry." he repeated, not looking at her.

She crossed the floor, slid her arms around his hips and angled a kiss up into
his face. "Baby, what's wrong?"

"Got into a shouting match with Lewis."

"Really? Wow, don't you usually get on okay with him?"

"Usually, yeah." He agreed, still not making eye contact.

She put her head on one side, trying to catch his gaze. "So… what was the
argument about?"

"…Xiu. He, uh, wants to ask her out."

Allison considered this. "Okay? I mean, I can't see that ending in her saying
yes, but he's a grown-ass man, I'm sure he'll cope, and it might be good for
her confidence. Why argue?"

"He might hurt her."

She made an incredulous noise. "Are we talking about the same girl, here?" She
asked. "Because I seem to recall the _last_ man who hurt her, she whupped his
ass and threw him out the airlock. So… why argue? She can take care of
herself."

Julian wriggled out of her grip and picked up the hand tape. "I… don't know."
he said, beginning to wind it back up.

"You don't? You got into a shouting match with the guy and you don't know
why?"

"…Yeah."

She blinked at him, then stepped back. "Why are you lying to me, Julian?"

He took a deep breath and released it as a complex sighing sound, full of
noises that could have been attempts at starting a sentence.

"Well? Come on, give me real."

"I-I was mad with him over… well, over Xiu."

"Mad why? What are-" suspicion sniped her right in the forehead and her jaw
dropped. "Julian, what…? Are you fucking *jealous?" *

The way he flinched and turned in on himself a bit more confirmed it. "You
**are?** What, you thought you'd buy one get one free? You… you _pig!_"

"It's not like that!"

"Oh, what IS it like, then?"

"What it's _like_ is that I'm down here beating the crap out of that thing-"
he pointed at the bag "-because I'm super fucking angry at myself!" He finally
made eye contact.

"As well you fucking should be!" she retorted.

"Well… I am!"

"Good!"

"I'm sorry!"

"You're forgiven!"

The paradox posed by her still-angry tone versus her words shut him up long
enough for the echoes caused by the gym's hollow acoustics to die.

"I, uh… I am?" he asked, cautiously.

Allison coughed out a little breathy laugh and shook her head at the floor.
"You are." she said.

"You're not mad?"

"Oh, I'm fucking mad alright." She informed him, jabbing a finger into his
chest. "You lied to me, Julian. You tried to shut me out. _That_ part pisses
me off. Whatever's going on in your head about Xiu? I can forgive that."

"You… can?"

"Sure. See, you got mad at yourself and came down here to work it out and you
feel guilty about it. So, yeah. Fine. I forgive you. Heck I don't blame you;
I'm kinda fascinated by her myself, and I'm not usually into girls!" She
jabbed him in the chest again. "But don't _ever_ lie to me like that again."

"…Yes ma'am."

A sly smile spread across her face, and she looked him up and down. "…Ma'am,
huh?"

"…Uh…" He scratched the back of his head "Well I mean… yeah, that's what I
said."

"That's kinda hot." She mused, teasing him. "I could get used to that."

He rubbed the bridge of his nose with this thumb, awkwardly, and looked away a
little bit. "Well I, uh… I mean, I wasn't really aiming for '_hot_' but, um,
I-if you want more of that, then… uh…"

She arched an eyebrow at him. "Hmm. Good boy."

She watched his expression carefully. Noticed the way his breathing changed
and the wariness in his eyes.

"Huh. You like being called a good boy, Etsicitty?" she asked.

He swallowed and nodded. "May-maybe a bit." he confessed.

She ran a finger up him from belt buckle to chin, which seemed to paralyze
him. "Hmm. Interesting…" she pondered, then looked up into his face. "Could be
you've got a bit of a sub streak there. Wanna explore it?" She asked.

He licked his lips nervously. "You think? I mean, I've never…"

"Me either," she confessed. "But the question stands. Wanna explore it?"

"…Yes ma'am."

She grinned, and rewarded him with a kiss. "Good boy."

Curiosity and mild alarm were dancing on Vedreg's body as he considered what
they had just heard. "That kind of argument seems out of character." He
commented

"For both of them." Kirk agreed.

"Just a little." Amir added, drily. "Julian's scary when he gets angry, too,
and Lewis just kept antagonising him. It was like watching a chicken try and
pick a fight with a bear."

"And all this over Miss Chang? Hmmm…" Vedreg lapsed into contemplation, slow
bands of blue light rippling all over his body.

"Penny for your thoughts?" Kirk asked him, after a moment.

"Increased aggression, competition over females… If they were Vgork, I would
think they were entering Musth."

"Lewis has started taking his exercise seriously this last week, too." Kirk
mused. "Interesting theory."

"Uh… For the Earthling's benefit, please?"

Both aliens made apologetic gestures to Amir. "Vgork males of high rank
periodically enter a state called _musth_ where their testosterone levels
soar, and they become violent, aggressive and, um… Amorous." Vedreg explained.

"Testosterone has a similar effect on humans, even though you don't have
Musth." Kirk added.

"Okay, well… what about me and the girls? We don't feel any different." Amir
paused. "At least, I don't, and I think we'd notice if Xiu and Allison were
both acting like Julian and Lewis."

"So that rules out any environmental factors." Kirk said. "Meaning this must
have been triggered by a specific event."

"Well, Lewis has always been… he's always rolled his eyes a bit over my faith,
but it started to get worse just after we left Umu-whatever. Where we picked
up Xiu."

"So, it's an event within the past week. The _Huh_ perhaps? None of the other
humans studied it."

"Yeah, but you studied it too, didn't you?"

"I'm not human. I'm not sure my body even produces testosterone. But even a
week on, I still feel cravings to study that thing again."

"You are not going to suggest we should get it out and examine it further, are
you?" Vedreg asked.

"Don't tempt me." Kirk replied. "No, I think a simple trip to the infirmary
for them both may be in order. If they are both experiencing a hormone spike,
as seems likely, then that's easily corrected."

"I'll call them."

Xiu's cabin was actually the most lavishly-decorated on the ship, despite her
initial reluctance to put her stamp on it. Allison had pointed out that Xiu
was "_Going to spend at least, like, a month on this ship anyway, so why not
get comfortable?_"

The result was that she'd used up her entire month's allowance of nanofactory
time on fabrics, rugs, fairy lights, throw pillows and, with Kirk's
permission, candles. The result was that the cool default lighting of the
cabins was warmer in her room, and there was a gust of scented candle on the
wind when she answered Lewis' knock.

"Hey." She smiled, but he could tell that she was pretty frazzled. "What's
up?"

"Uh, I can come back if this isn't a good time…"

"No, I'm fine, I just…" She yawned "…I didn't sleep so well last night and I
guess it's catching up on me now."

"Well, if you need a nap-"

She smiled. "I'm fine, really. What's up?"

"Well…" he took the plunge. "Look, there's not a whole lot to do on this ship,
I know, but I've got some movies picked out I think you'd like, and I'm not a
half-bad cook myself when I put my mind to it so, I thought… Y'know, we've
been getting on pretty good, and…"

Her lips parted in surprise. "Are… are you asking me on a date?" she asked.

"Yeah! Or, like, on the closest thing we can manage to a date on this ship. If
you want."

"Wow, um…"

Lewis knew a rejection when he saw one coming and steeled himself for it,
determined not to be disappointed.

"I mean… I'm flattered, but Lewis, I'm not ready to mate with anyone yet."

All the steeling in the world couldn't have protected his ego from _that_
unexpected turn of phrase.

**_"…mate?!"_**

She hadn't seemed to notice what she'd said until his outraged echo, but when
she did her face went crimson. "Oh god, I'm sorry, that was in Gaoian, I…"

"No, no. _Clearly_ I had the wrong idea here."

"Don't be angry, I-!"

"Ah, go mate with yourself, Xiu!"

"But-!"

He was already halfway down the corridor, and pretended not to notice the
sound of her door closing, nor the miserable shout of "_God fucking DAMMIT,
Xiu!_" that drifted through it.

He barged past Vedreg on his way to his own quarters, ignoring the big alien's
concerned query, and threw himself into his bunk, fuming quietly.

The worst part was that he didn't really know why he was so angry. The anger
felt…_wrong._ Forced. He knew he shouldn't be so mad, and that just made him
madder.

He was still seething when the room chimed politely at him. "_You have a
message_." it informed him.

"Ignore."

"_The message is flagged as urgent_."

"I said fucking IGNORE!"

"_Ignoring message._"

"And hold all my messages until I say otherwise."

The room chimed again, acknowledging the command, and fell silent.

He didn't notice when he fell asleep, but he woke with a start some time later
when somebody started banging on his door.

"Ah, yes. Testosterone levels at two thousand percent normal. Just like
Julian."

Lewis frowned at the readout. "The fuck?"

"Must have been the _Huh_. No wonder we've been acting like a pair of
hyperthyroid quarterbacks." Julian told him.

"Fortunately…" Kirk said, touching something cold to his arm. "…It's an easy
fix. There. You should be back to normal in a couple of hours."

"What about you?" Lewis asked of Kirk. "You played with that thing too."

"And indeed, my own hormonal balance is off." Kirk agreed.

Allison was leaning against the wall with her arms folded. "Really? I've not
noticed you acting differently…?" she said.

"Human and Rrrtktktkp'ch brains are very different. Still, I suspect I too
would have begun to show behavioral changes before long."

Lewis sighed. "I guess I owe Xiu an apology, don't I?"

"I am sure she will understand." Kirk said.

"I'd better talk to her first, though." Allison said. "What happened?"

"Oh, I… asked her out."

"Yeah, I knew that. And?"

"Well, uh." Lewis scratched at the back of his head. "She had one of those
Gaoian moments. You know, she's tired, she's not been sleeping well? So she
said she wasn't '_looking to mate with anyone right now_'."

Julian grimaced. "Ouch."

"Yeah, but it's not her fault, is it? You said it yourself dude, she's been
without human contact for years. That's got to fuck with your head."

Kirk patted his shoulder. "It is not your fault either." he assured him.

"Still." Allison said. "I'll go talk to her."

"Sure." Lewis muttered, as she kissed Julian's cheek and left the Infirmary.

_Xiu doesn't remember having set up a hundred tea-light candles in her
quarters, but she doesn't question it: She's making love to Julian, what
better way to do that than by candlelight?_

_She runs her finger over his chest and watches his skin glow forge-red where
she presses. The sight is entrancing, so much so that she forgets all about
the sex and just watches the glow. When she taps his chest, coloured sparks
fly everywhere._

_She does it again, laughing, and again and again. She has always loved New
Year, and the fireworks. In fact… why is she wasting her time here when she
could be there, enjoying the celebrations?_

_She climbs off the stone man and steps out into the street, hailing a cab to
take her to her parents' place. There will be Nin Gou! And Luo buo gao! How
could she have forgotten?_

_She's still kicking herself for forgetting when she_ turned over and nearly
fell out of bed, jolting awake in time to catch herself from falling.

She rolled back onto her pillow and stared at the ceiling, recalling the dream
as the details evaporated, never to be recalled. What she could remember of it
left her feeling hungry, horny and nostalgic all at once.

Cursing in a melange of English, Chinese and Gaoian, she dragged herself out
of bed and into the shower, and cranked the temperature right down, and was
still sluicing herself under the cold water when the door chimed.

"Just a minute!"

She scrubbed her limbs until they were merely damp and threw on her bathrobe,
wrapping her hair up into a towel-turban. "Come in!"

Allison poked her head round it. "Hey, you okay?" she asked.

Xiu paused. "You heard?"

"Lewis is in the infirmary right now." Allison said. "It turns out that
fucking _huh_ thing's had the boys on a hormone rush all week."

"…Are _they_ okay?"

"They'll be fine." Allison reassured her. "Lewis is probably going to come up
here and say sorry later."

Xiu sat down on her bed. "I don't… really blame him." she said. "I mean… okay,
I _do_, but… I guess I mean…" she gave up and shrugged helplessly.

Allison just smiled. "I get you." she said.

Xiu relaxed. "Thanks."

"So… honey." Allison sat down next to her. "Asking as a friend, and with no
hard feelings at all…"

Not unnaturally, Xiu was immediately nervous. "Um… Yes?"

"What's going on between you and my boyfriend?"

"Wh-? _Nothing!_" Xiu's face was redder than her rug, and she stood up
sharply. "Nothing! Really!"

"I know nothing's _happened_." Allison reassured her. "I'm just asking… what's
going on?"

Xiu's blush faded a little, and she dragged the towel off her head, bunching
it up nervously. "I'm sorry, he's just…hot."

"Oh yeah." Allison agreed, nodding, which drew a giggle out of Xiu. "And
you're lonely, aren't you?" she added.

"…Yeah."

Allison nodded. "And a bit confused, going by what you said to Lewis."

Xiu sighed, and threw the towel into her laundry hamper. "I guess so." she
admitted. "It's so much more… _straightforward_ with Gaoians." She punctuated
the pause and the word that ended it with her hands, then gestured towards the
door and to Allison. "The whole '_he's off limits because he's with you_'
thing is… I mean, I know how it works, I haven't forgotten, but it's…" She
tailed off and shrugged again, flapping her arms helplessly.

"Not what you're used to?"

Xiu hissed an indrawn breath and flapped her arms again, shaking her head. "I
guess it's not." she agreed.

"That's gotta be scary."

Xiu just nodded, staring at the floor, balling her fists. It was such a
childlike pose that it yanked right at every motherly instinct Allison had,
and she launched herself up off the bed to grab her friend in a tight hug.

She earned a soaking wet shoulder for her efforts as Xiu let go and shook,
hugging back so hard that her fingernails broke skin even through Allison's
tshirt. "What if I can't be human again?" she squeaked. "What if… what if I'm
stuck? What do I do? Every time I think I'm doing well I relax and then I
_screw up_ again! What if I'm…. broken? Where do I go then?"

Allison said nothing, just held on and let her get it out.

"All I want to do is _go home_, but then I act like a Gaoian and I'm scared
I'll go home and people will think I'm a freak, and my family won't recognise
me and I won't know them and I won't fit… and… and it all feels like it
happened to someone else, Earth, it feels like it wasn't _me_ who lived there,
like I'm a Gaoian who had a dream about being human one time and… How do I
cope? What do I do? I don't think I know how to do _anything_ human any more,
but I'm not Gaoian… so… so… _So where do I belong?!_"

She petered out and just sobbed for a bit, while Allison rubbed her back and
waited until she judged the time was right.

"You said all of that in English." she said.

There was a slow moment, but the sobbing stopped, and another slow moment
after that, Xiu pulled her head out of Allison's shirt and blinked at her with
watery red eyes. "I did?"

"Every word." Allison promised.

Xiu relaxed a little, and stood up straight, issuing a bitter little laugh as
she dried her eyes. "I'm so messed up…" she observed.

"Nobody wouldn't be." Allison said, brushing some of Xiu's hair out of the
way. "But we're here for you. We get you, Julian maybe even more than I do.
And if you're broken, you'll mend, or you'll find somebody to mend you."

Xiu was nodding, downcast, but Allison wasn't quite finished. "And as for
where you belong…"

"Don't say here." Xiu interrupted. "Please, don't ask me again."

Allison hugged her again. "I was going to say I don't think anybody _belongs_
anywhere." she said. "Except for where they choose to be. Wherever that is."

Xiu finally smiled again as that sank in. It was a reluctant, unhappy little
smile, but it was still like the sun rising. "I like that." she said.

"Kind of my mantra, babe… You okay?"

Xiu scrubbed at her eye again, sniffing. "I don't know." she said. "I hope
so."

Allison nodded. "Good start." she said. "And… about Julian?"

"Yeah?"

"I trust him, and I trust you. Whatever's going on is, uh…you aren't allowed
to kiss him."

That finally provoked a giggle. "I'll try not to," Xiu promised.

"Cool…Girl's night? I've got Disney movies, wine, and a shirtless waiter. My
treat."

"Shirtl-? Wait, really?!"

"Well, he doesn't _know_ it yet…" Allison smiled mischievously "But… call it a
hunch, I think he'll agree to it. It's just a bit of fun. You in?"

"…Can I make crepes? I'm kinda hungry."

"Sounds good."

"Then I'm in."

"This, uh… this could get awkward…"

Allison paused as they were about to open the door to the common room. "Are
you okay?"

Julian fidgeted. "I know I agreed to this, just…"

She smiled, and gave him a kiss. "It's not like I've got a cattle prod, baby."
she said. "If you're not totally comfortable, don't even worry about it. I
just thought it'd be a bit of harmless, sexy fun. But if you don't want to…"

Julian considered it, then shook his head and smiled. "No, I'm in." he said.
"Comfort zones are meant to be pushed out of."

"You're sure?"

He grabbed her hand and put it on his chest, letting her feel his pulse.

"Wow… you're getting off on this, huh?" she noted.

He nodded and looked down, fighting the half-smile that was crawling up one
side of his face. "A bit, yeah."

"Good boy." Allison teased him, then opened the door.

Xiu was just setting down the crepes she'd made - true Canadian ones, laden
with ham, cheese, sunny-side-up eggs and maple syrup - on the coffee table
alongside popcorn and nachos. From the looks of things, she'd already helped
herself to a glass of wine.

"Ooh!" she exclaimed. "You gave him a bow tie!"

Julian fingered the adornment in question. "These things aren't made to be
worn on bare skin." he complained.

"It's that or the cat ears." Allison reminded him.

"Bow tie it is!" Julian rushed to reply, preempting the delight that had risen
on Xiu's face. She made a disappointed sound, but also took a second to
unabashedly appreciate the view. Both women were clearly enjoying themselves.

"Well I'll be kind." Allison said. "You can pick three films out, we'll
eliminate two of them and watch the survivor."

"Very kind." Julian drawled, sarcastically. Allison held up a finger.

"Ah?" she cautioned him.

He sighed, but smiled a little and straightened, trying to will himself into
the role. "Yes ma'am."

Xiu giggled. "Good boy." She'd clearly already relaxed considerably after just
one glass, and looked on course to be a happy, bubbly drunk.

"So, what are your picks?" Allison urged him, pouring a glass each for herself
and Xiu.

He examined the stack of Disney movies. "Uh… _Dumbo…"_ He said, picking one
they hadn't watched yet.

"Ugh, not _Dumbo_. I hate those pink elephants." Allison objected. Julian
threw the disc back onto the stack.

"Okay… _Lady and the Tramp_,and _Mulan_"

Xiu perked up even more. _"Mulan_'s my favorite!"

"Hmmm…It's got better songs, too…" Allison mused.

"Let's watch it!" Xiu enthused.

Allison winked at their waiter. "You heard her, lover! Jump to!"

He tried to be serious, but couldn't quite contain a smile. "Yes ma'am."

The girls chimed their glasses together. "Good boy." they chorused.

"_♪♫Tranquil as a forest, but on fire within! Once you find your center, you
are sure to win!♫♫_"

"Sounds like quite the party back there."

"Yep." Amir nodded. What the girls lacked in hitting the right notes, they
were clearly making up for in tipsy enthusiasm.

"How come we're not invited?"

"Allison called it a '_girl's night_'."

"So, what's Julian doing back there?"

"Serving drinks, with his shirt off."

Lewis paused. After being discharged from the infirmary, and using the fading
dregs of hormonal aggression in his system to his advantage, he'd enlisted
Amir's help in solving the mystery of the FTL drive power draw. Now, he
stopped and listened to two voices atonally chorusing "_♫swift as the coursing
river, with all the force of a great typhoon…♪_". The volume was impressive
even through a closed pressure door and down the deck.

"Wow…" he managed. He wasn't sure if he felt jilted, sympathetic or like he
was hearing justice in action.

Amir nodded. "Yep."

"_♫…As the dark side of, the mooOoOoOon!!!♫♪_"

"…What do you think would happen if we asked them to do a topless waitress
night for us?"

"Broken ribs."

"Fuck, man." Lewis griped. "That's just not fair."

Amir smirked. "Nope."

"….Change of topic, where's Kirk at, anyway?"

"Think he's up in the observation blister looking for signs of OmoAru life out
there."

"After _that_ sandstorm?" Lewis looked skeptical.

"It's their planet. They're probably used to it. He said something about
wanting to see what they do after a week of being forced indoors"

"Why's that?"

"_♫You're unsuited for the rage of war, so pack up, go home: you're
through.♪_"

Amir raised his voice over the song. "He said that anything they do straight
away is probably something they're still at least a little passionate about."

"_♫How could I make a man out of you?♪_"

Lewis wobbled his head in concession. "Makes sense I guess."

"Pardon?" The girls had launched into the chorus again, with even more
cacophonous vigor than before.

"I said _makes sense!"_

"Yep."

The volume increased dramatically as the door opened and Julian slipped out
into the deck, holding an empty wine bottle, and vanished into the galley,
from whence he re-emerged a minute later with a full bottle. To both Amir and
Lewis' astonishment, he seemed to be enjoying himself.

"…Are you sure we couldn't get them to…?"

"Nope."

"_The Fifth Element_ and lingerie?"

"Go ahead and suggest it. It's your funeral."

"…Shit."

Amir smiled grimly. "Yep."

By the time the movie had finished, Amir had already declared that the limits
of his technical expertise were reached, and that from here on out it was all
up to Lewis, before retiring to bed.

For his part, Lewis was determined to pull an all-nighter, and the only thing
that distracted him from his work was when he saw Allison and Julian on the
security cams, en route to Julian's cabin and all bar stripping each other on
the way there.

He genuinely didn't notice Xiu, or know how long she'd been waiting in the
doorframe, until she spoke, but her greeting "Hey." was so gentle that it
didn't even make him jump.

He turned. "Hey." he echoed.

A good five seconds of mutual awkwardness ensued before he finally decided to
break it. "I'm sorry." he said. "I shoulda been more understanding."

"I'm sorry too." she replied. "I just… I guess I've got a long way to go."

He nodded. "It's okay. Still, even if it's just a friend-date, offer stands."

She smiled. He wasn't sure if it was the wine that was making her so relaxed,
or if she was just in a good headspace right now. "_Xie xie_."

"No Disney though, please."

"That's okay… Goodnight, Lewis."

"G'night."

Allison came down from her orgasm with laughter, the low and satisfied chuckle
of the totally relaxed, and floated on bliss as Julian gently retrieved his
hand and snuggled up beside her, interrupting her heavy breathing with a kiss
and a gentle stroke on the cheek to get her hair out of the way.

"I think she liked it." he observed in a sing-song whisper, his eyes twinkling
in the dark. He was plainly very pleased with himself.

As he should be.

"Mmmm, yeah." she agreed. "Oh, I definitely like it."

"You like to be in charge, huh?"

She giggled. "Shut up and go get your mistress a glass of water."

He laughed, but extracted his arm from under her head. "Yes ma'am."

"Mmm…" She bit her lip and chuckled again. "Good boy."

_Xiu is sitting by a lake. Or by a river, maybe: the details are irrelevant.
The sun is rising blue and cold over a landscape of white-foliaged trees and
swirling distant shapes that might be birds, or maybe eels. She is wearing
long skirts of white cloth. The mist should be chilly but she feels quite
warm, watching a green fish swirl and mouth lazily in circles by the shore._

_She catches it, reaching into the stream and pulling it out. It flips and
flails in her hands and, to calm it, she opens it to page fifty-six and tries
to read what is printed there, but she can't make out the words._

_As she bends to return the poor creature to the water, she catches sight of
her own reflection and examines it, surprised to see a human face studying
her. Where is her fur? What happened to her ears and muzzle?_

_But of course, she's human._

_…Isn't she?_

_She turns to face the stone man behind her, seeking his opinion. This time he
is taller than mountains, and he bends to offer her his hand._

_She steps forward onto his fingertips, and he picks her up, and up, and up,
past his knees, past a penis the size of a skyscraper, past square miles of
muscular sculpture, to his face._

_She speaks to him, but can't remember the words, or even what she intends to
say. She turns around, thinking about what to tell him, how to communicate her
feelings, and looks over the side of the boat she's on, double-checking that
her reflection is still human._

_The stone man comes up beside her and takes her hand._

_He sings to her, but the song is piercing, terrifying. It sounds like… like…_

She woke up and his "song" was still reverberating around her room. It was
_Sanctuary_'s red alert alarm.

Kirk had beaten all the humans to the flight deck. "What the hell's going on?"
he was demanding.

Lewis was working furiously, selecting, drag-dropping and running programs as
fast as his hands could move, "We're compromised, don't ask me how!" He said.
"One minute I'm poking around the FTL systems, next-"

"FTL?"

"Yeah, there's been some weird power draw on it this week, I was trying to
lock it down. Next I knew we've got _these_ motherfuckers crawling all over
our systems." He waved a hand at the screen.

Kirk rocked back onto his hindlimbs as Amir squeezed past him and threw
himself into the pilot's seat, lending his own limited expertise to Lewis'
aid. "And what are '_these motherfuckers_'?" he asked, quietly.

"Fuck if I know. They're using system runtime like programs, but they're
acting like other users."

"What _exactly_ were you doing?"

"Now is not the time for a fucking powerpoint presentation." Lewis snarled,
dragging a program into the run list. It apparently didn't function as he'd
hoped, drawing an angry noise out of him. "They just got into navigation, they
know where we are."

"_Did you run a communications protocol through the FTL?_" Kirk spat.

Lewis paused, but rallied and threw another script into the line of fire.
"Yeah, how did you know?"

Kirk ignored him and spun around. "Julian, yank the blackbox FTL, replace it
with the backup warp engine," he ordered. "Xiu, Allison, get outside and cut
the anchor cables. Amir, prep for launch."

"What the shit is going on?" Lewis demanded. Kirk turned back to him.

"I fucked up." he said. "And now the Hierarchy have found us."

Fusion knives made short work of the anchor cables, and the longest part of
Julian's task was the sprint down the ship's central corridor, up the stairs
and through the engineering access hatch.

"We're a week from anywhere, we're probably safe… aren't we?" Amir was asking
as the girls returned to the flight deck to report their job done.

"They have point-to-point FTL communications, something the Dominion has been
trying to perfect for… millennia." Kirk replied. "For all we know they've
perfected single-end wormholes or gigalight FTL for good measure. Or maybe Aru
is one of their projects and they have a ship or a staging post nearby. Our
only defense at this point is to get the hell out of here and hope they're too
far away to catch up. Lewis, you're sure you managed to clear them out?"

"Second the blackbox was yanked, I was able to nuke the whole system and
restore from backup. Nothing's come back to haunt us, so… yeah, we're clean."

"Amir."

Amir nodded and stabbed the button for a shipwide announcement. "All hands,
report in for launch."

There was a chorus of "here"s from around the bridge and, after a few seconds,
a rumble from Vedreg over the open line that he, too, was present.

"Right."

_Sanctuary_ went from resting on the sands, to hovering above them, then
rotated around its stern until its nose was aimed skywards. Angry clouds
formed in the displaced air around a cylindrical forcefield tunnel of vacuum
that Amir created for them and then he punched to full thrust.

Allison turned faintly green as the ground just _vanished_, lurching away
behind them with a violence that offended the senses, while nobody on the ship
felt the slightest jolt. The sky faded to black in seconds.

"Jesus, this thing _really_ moves." Xiu whispered, awe-struck.

"Out of the well in three… two… one… Warp."

The planet Aru jolted away with just as much ferocity as its surface had done,
as did all three of its moons. A second later, so did the Aru star.

"Redline it?" Amir asked. He sounded quite cool, considering.

"Redline it." Kirk agreed. Amir just nodded and patted his console fondly,
reassuring the ship.

"Seventy kilos." he reported, watching a display that was blurring in his
upper-right field of view. "A hundred. two hundred. Four hundred… we're at
blackbox cruise. Seven hundred kilolights… Bus maxed at seven hundred ninety
thousand _C_ and holding."

"Let us hope." Kirk said. "That is enough."

"We should be careful anyway." Julian pointed out.

"Agreed. Grab your personal items and put any you can't carry, along with a
data backup and…. yes, the _Huh_ into a cargo pod and program it for Cimbrean.
I'll go help Vedreg into a life raft. You all should get in one too."

"What about Amir?" Xiu asked.

"Don't worry about me." Amir said. "The flight seat doubles as a life raft. So
do the beds in all the cabins."

"Go." Kirk urged. "I don't want to trust to luck here."

Julian turned to the girls. "You two get the _Huh_. I'll prep the pod." he
said.

They let Kirk go first: he trotted down the axial corridor and toward the
lower cargo deck where Vedreg had made his home. Every emergency feature on
the ship was outlined in blue lighting, from the hallway oxygen masks, first
aid kits and fire extinguishers, to the life raft alcoves and decontamination
showers. Kirk had spared no expense on ensuring that the ship's occupants had
every emergency tool they could want, cleverly hidden so that it only showed
up when needed. Now they were all deploying, panels sliding back to reveal the
functional features beneath.

"You got anything special you want to save?" Allison asked. Xiu checked her
pocket, gripping the handful of personal items she'd brought with her. It
wasn't much - just the data chip Ayma had brought for her, and one of the
smooth little stones that Myun had taken to sewing into her clothes.

"No, I've already got everything." she said.

"Great." Kirk turned off the corridor and Allison took off at a run, leaving
Xiu to scramble after her. Down the ramp, through the common room, up the
ramp, turn left past the engineering access, and Allison's room was the second
on their left. She punched in the door code, darted inside, and returned an
instant later carrying a knotted bundle of T-shirt and strapping on her
holster and gun.

She'd just done up the leg strap when Amir's voice boomed over the intercom.

"BRACE, BRACE, BRACE!!"

They didn't have time. He'd barely finished the third word when the ship
lurched, flinging both of them down the corridor.

Xiu tucked in her head and limbs and rolled, not unfolding until she'd come to
a halt, finding herself fetched up against the reinforced backplate of the
engine that terminated the deck corridor. Allison had come to a halt a little
earlier, and was hauling herself to her feet, swearing and cursing at the
carpet burn all down her flank.

Somebody had clearly left the microphone on because the next thing they heard
was Julian's voice, sounding strained, saying. "Shit, that's a lot of blood…"

Both women went still, looked at each other, and as one bolted back up towards
the flight deck, Allison at a dead run. Xiu had the presence of mind to grab a
medical kit from its previously-hidden recess on the wall.

Down the ramp, through the common room, up the ramp, along the corridor and…
Xiu felt her stomach lurch. That _was_ a lot of blood.

And beyond that… space.

"What the hell happened?" Allison was yelling. The bubble of glass that was
_Sanctuary_'s nose was half shattered, the air held in only by forcefields.
Amir was writhing in his seat, teeth gritted as he tried to press his hand to
a horrible wound in his side.

"Gravity spike and mines!" Lewis replied. He'd hauled himself out of his seat
and grabbed a medical kit of his own.

"Clear out!" Allison commanded, grabbing the kit. "Julian! give him a shot of
this, right here." she handed an injector to him and tapped a spot on Amir's
spine, then extracted something that looked for all the world like a sealant
gun from the kit. "Xiu, get me a light!"

Xiu's paralysed limbs moved without her conscious control, and she snatched an
emergency lantern from the wall, holding it up and trying to ignore the…
colours, and wet shapes she could see. Especially the white. Especially the
way they moved as Allison pumped some kind of foam into the gruesome injury.

The injector beeped, and a second later Amir sighed, shook his head and
collected himself. With a gasp, he lashed out and swiped his hands through the
helm's control field and the stars outside blurred sideways. Xiu screwed her
eyes shut.

"That's a lot of mines!" he grunted.

"You're stable." Allison declared. "Come on, let's get you in a stasis pod."

He shook his head, his face already pebbled with sweat. "Can't."

"Wh-?"

Everyone on the bridge flinched and averted their eyes as a line of pure
_heat_ slashed a blue-pink afterimage across the sky. Xiu felt the incredible
temperature of it on her skin.

"What was _that?!_" Julian asked.

Lewis looked grim "Plasma cannon."

"It's a fuckhuge ship, is what it is." Amir told them. "I stop flying and
you're all dead."

"But-" Lewis began.

"Nah mate. Abandon ship. That's a bloody order from your pilot."

Another shot tore the sky open, much closer this time if the searing heat that
bathed them like sunburn was anything to go by.

Julian, Allison and Xiu were all survivors. Julian just stood and put a hand
on Amir's shoulder, eyes damp. Allison kissed the side of his head, and the
three of them cleared the bridge, with Xiu not even knowing what to say.

It was Lewis that was the holdup. "Dude…" he began, weeping openly.

"You don't want to be here when I ram that thing, bruv." Amir told him.

"You're gonna-?"

Amir gave him a tight, pinched at him "_Fuck off_ you idiot!"

Lewis nodded, grabbed the back of Amir's head, touched forehead to forehead
and nose to nose.

"Goodbye, dude." He whispered.

Amir made a sound that might have been amusement and might have been
frustration. Either way, he was smiling. "**_GO._**" he repeated.

Lewis finally obeyed him.

Down the corridor, down the ramp, through the common room, up the ramp. Xiu
turned at the junction by engineering hatch. "Lewis come _on!_" she called.

He was halfway across the common area when _something_ hit them, hard, and
ripped a chunk out of _Sanctuary_'s living quarters the length of a shipping
container. The destroyed section vanished in a whirl of air and pulverized
metal, and only the millisecond timing of containment forcefields prevented
the adjacent areas from decompressing… but they left Lewis trapped on the far
side. He sprang to his feet, slapped the forcefield in frustration, then
gesticulated back towards the lower decks, flipped them a salute and ran.

A second hit rocked them even harder than the first.

Xiu stared after him, praying silently that he'd make it, before remembering
to pray that _they_ would, too.

"Xiu! MOVE!" Allison's desperate yell got through to her, and she scrambled
upright. Julian was punching the door code with shaking fingers, missing the
right keys, and Allison was fidgeting next to him. The gravity seemed to have
gone wrong, and she felt like she was standing on a steep hill, which was
probably why Julian and Allison were both holding on to the handrails.

Something smashed a hole straight through the ceiling and out the deck. Not a
big hole. But one that killed their section's power supply.

Without it the lighting, the gravity, and the atmospheric containment fields
all failed, and that little hole got abruptly wider as all of their precious
atmosphere tried to bully its way out.

It wasn't a wind. Wind wasn't an adequate word. Instead, the last sound those
air molecules would ever carry was the rising howl of their own escape, and
Xiu's mortal shriek as the maelstrom decompression tore her loose and threw
her toward infinity.

Allison couldn't let go of the handrail without being dragged away as well,
but she kicked out and with a frantic speed and precision that no snake had
ever managed, Xiu snatched at and grabbed her ankle. From Allison's expression
the rescue clearly cost her a wrenched knee, but that was the least of their
trouble right now: The rescue was only a temporary one. As the last of the air
fled, their lives were now measured in seconds, if that.

'_Hard Vacuum_' had always seemed like an oxymoronic term. Now Julian
understood it intimately. He tasted copper and pain as the saliva boiled in
his mouth, and he could feel the blood under his skin threatening to do the
same. Though his eyes watered to defend themselves against the desiccating
void, the tears fizzed off of his eyeballs as soon as they were made. Burning
frost formed on his ears, nose, eyebrows, fingers, lips. His ears, so recently
abused by explosions and alarms, now rang in the silence to drown out the
eerie way that his own heartbeat echoed around his body. His chest heaved and
creaked, pressing down on unnaturally empty lungs that themselves were
seething and screaming with boiling fluids and ebullism.

By some miracle - either by a happy accident of alien incompetence, or a rare
moment of actual engineering ingenuity - the doors to the cabins had all flung
themselves wide open the moment the power failed, clearing a way to the bunks,
each one of which was a life raft.

Those open doors were the difference between life and death for all three of
them. With only seconds at the outside until they passed out and died, having
to punch in the door code would have killed them. Instead, they had exactly
one shot.

He grabbed Allison's wrist and heaved, flinging her through the nearest door
and towards its bed with Xiu still trailing from her ankle, and hauled himself
through after them. They crashed together into the bunk, and with what felt
like it was surely the last of his strength, Julian grabbed the bright blue
handle that had popped out of its covers, and yanked it down.

It broke.

It also worked. The bunk's built-in quantum power core fired, and they
collapsed onto the mattress as gravity reasserted itself. Forcefields went up
even as the walls came down, and emergency air tanks explosively vented into
the enclosed space, painfully slamming into every vacant bronchiole of their
lungs.

Even Deathworlders could do nothing but lie there, convulsing weakly and
coughing.

The life raft was built for flimsier beings, however. As delicately as a new
mother afraid that her baby will break at the slightest touch, it enfolded
them, wrapped them in layers of protection, slipped its moorings, and escaped.

There were lights in the top of his control interface that told Amir how many
life rafts had launched, but he couldn't spare the millisecond to glance at
it. All he knew was that at least _some_ of them were blinking. Which meant
that at least _some_ of his friends were safe.

That was enough. There was no time to wait for more.

He threw _Sanctuary_ into something not dissimilar to a Herbst maneuver,
modified in ways that only a high-powered spaceship could achieve in vacuum. A
volley of coilgun and plasma fire that _should_ have evaporated them on the
spot missed several kilometers to the fore as what had been a transverse
target became an oncoming dart, accelerating so hard that the ship's
superstructure creaked, even with the forcefield assistance.

"Ship."

It chimed its readiness for an order, and he gave one, quite calm and quiet,
despite the ragged difficulty he was having breathing.

"Show me Earth."

The blue dot appeared in his field of view, and he thanked Allah that he had
one last chance to look homewards before he died.

Time to say goodbye. He conjured what little strength was left in his aching
ribs, and spoke the last and most important words of his life.

"_There is only one God, and Mohammad is His proph-_"

**++0042++:** "**_Signal Lost_**"? **Did we just lose an experimental dreadnought to an** **_unarmed yacht?_**

**++0007++: It doesn't matter. Priority Target One has still been killed. That's worth the loss.**

**++0042++: Are you absolutely sure?**

**++0007++: Do** **_you_** **have a spare ship able to get there anytime in the next few months to check?**

**++0033++: That was the only free-point jump ship we had and you know it.**

**++0007++: Well, then.**

**++0012++: That seems… complacent, Seven.**

**++0042++: Not to mention being a non-sequitur.**

**++0007++: If PT1 somehow survived that and resurfaces, we will know about it instantly. He won't be able to build a replacement ship without our knowledge. Even if he is not in fact dead, he is still neutralized.**

**++0042++: …Conceded.**

**++0012++: Conceded.**

**++0030++: Clearly the free-point jump project needs more work. We were exceptionally lucky. A margin of error in the exit location greater than three parsecs is just not acceptable.We had a three-in-four chance of being out of range to intercept.**

**++0067++: That margin of error is a product of quantum inherent uncertainty. I'll await your success in overcoming** **_that_** **with considerable interest.**

**++0004++: And we have put paid to those unwelcome intrusions into our systems. Even with the loss of the dreadnought, this has been a successful day.**

**++0007++: Agreed.**

**++0012++: Agreed.**

**++0004++: Ending session. Good work.**

**&lt;System Notification: Session Closed&gt;**

**&lt;Redirecting: Subnet Mask ????????? Port ?????&gt;**

**++????++: So, what exactly happened, Six?**

**++????++: "Jim" didn't see fit to brief his crew. Not a foolish idea, but from the looks of things his network security expert was tenacious and inventive enough to identify the link, and his probing it revealed the intrusion to Four, who ordered us in. For the sake of keeping the Cabal a secret, we had to play along.**

**++????++: At least your cover as Seven is still intact.**

**++????++: At least there is that, yes. I think we should put a moratorium on bringing meatspace agents into this channel from now on.**

**++????++: Seconded.**

**++????++: Agreed.**

**++????++: That seems sensible, assuming our own activity won't generate similar errors.**

**++????++: It won't. "Seven" managed to patch at least that little problem.**

**++????++: Good. What about "Jim"?**

**++????++: If he survived, we'll be hearing from him soon. I hope.**

**&lt;System Notification: Channel Closed&gt;**

_Xiu is back in the commune on Gao._

_She knows this, because she is dreaming, and it's a familiar dream and a good
one. A dream of warmth and safety, of a strong chest, and an arm around her.
One where she always realises that she is dreaming about ten seconds before
Myun begins to bounce all over her, summoning her to a new day._

_Her eyes flutter open, and she frowns in confusion. There are a few extra
details in the dream this time: The hand lightly hugging her waist. The breath
rippling her hair. The leg that her own leg is thrown over, and the foot
moving against her own foot. A dull, emphatic soreness in every cell of her
body. The blonde head that's asleep on the opposite side of that strong chest,
also with an arm around her and with a little roll of T-shirt bunched in her
fist._

_The owner of that head looks in a bad way: her face is puffy and bruised and
there is a tear-streak down the fold by her nose that has an alarming dried-
blood hint to it. Her breath has a phlegmy, rough edge._

_Why is Allison in my dream?_

_Weisheme wǒ name tengle?_

_Oh._

"We slept?"

Julian's chest moved, and she enjoyed the sound of air rushing into it, and
the way the word "_Yeah_" reverberated warmly within him, just below her ear.
It distracted her from all the pain her vacuum-abused body was trying to tell
her about. "We all did. For a couple of hours." he murmured, almost
whispering.

She looked up. They were kissing-close, so near that she could feel the warmth
of his face. The inside of the liferaft was lit only by orange and blue lights
which reflected in his eyes, though those eyes were bloodshot behind the
reflections. "Guess getting spaced does that to you." he added.

She shivered and tried to burrow into his side to escape the memory of the
raping touch of _nothing,_ fighting back a horrible flashback of being about
to die and powerless to stop it. He gave her a little squeeze, and she
whimpered a small pain sound as he accidentally massaged a muscle that had so
recently been cramping from the Bends. He immediately flinched back from the
hug with a whispered "Sorry."

She tried to move to relieve the discomfort but found that she was practically
paralysed, and that the pathetic range of motion she _could_ summon the
strength for was excruciating. Fishing for something to talk about to distract
her from the gnawing concern for her own well-being, she alighted on an urgent
question "The others?" She whispered so as to avoid waking Allison. "Have you
heard from them?"

His chapped lips went thin and his jaw twisted as he answered by gently
shaking his head.

"Oh…"

"On the plus side, It doesn't look like the ship that attacked us had backup,
so we're probably safe to set course for civilization."

"Hmm." she agreed and lowered her head onto his shoulder for a second.

It occurred to her that he was holding her, in exactly the same way that he
was holding Allison. "Uhm…" she twisted to try and look at his arm, which was
resting lightly around her shoulders, his hand light on her waist.

"Hmm? Oh!" He started to remove the arm, twisting to extract his shoulder from
under her head, moving awkwardly and clearly in terrible pain himself.
"Sorry."

"No! No… I-I don't mind…" she stopped him by rubbing her head into his
shoulder to drive home the point. Despite everything, despite what they had
just been through, despite the crippling effects of vacuum exposure, having
that arm around her felt _safe_, here in the quiet. "It's just…"

"What?"

Xiu smiled sadly at Allison's face, sleeping only inches away from her own.
"She's not into sharing…" she said, then added without thinking:
"Unfortunately."

Julian stopped breathing for a second. "_Um…_"

"Sorry." Xiu said, then realised just what she'd said and rolled her face into
his shirt, burying her sudden tears there. "I'm sorry, sorry. I shouldn't… I
didn't mean… I mean, I _did_ but… _God_, I don't know where my head's at right
now. I'm sorry."

"Hey. It's fine." He said, and squeezed her again. "I get you."

She looked back up at him. "I'm sorry." she repeated.

Both of them jumped slightly when Allison made a noise that sounded equal
parts amused, sleepy and agonised. "'s okay." she murmured. "Just don't kiss
him."

The joking echo of their earlier conversation at least allowed Xiu to quash
her treacherous impulse to do exactly that. Instead she echoed Julian's weak
chuckle with a watery little laugh of her own and smeared her cheeks dry with
the heel of one palm.

"So what happens next?" she asked.

"Head for civilization, I guess." Allison replied, hauling herself up onto one
elbow with a pained groan. "_God_. I feel awful."

"Yeah, well, we got fucking lucky." Julian said. "_One_ second longer, none of
us would have made it."

"Jesus." Allison rasped. She coughed, and frowned at the red spatter on her
palm. "We'd better get our asses somewhere with a hospital, huh?" she croaked.

"Yeah, uh… I've got… bad news on that front." Julian revealed.

"What?"

"This thing only does one kilolight."

Allison's expression fell. "Oh. Shit."

Xiu looked back and forth between them. "That's… slow, isn't it?"

"It's about five hundred times slower than _Sanctuary_'s cruising speed."
Julian said. "And even for _Sanctuary_ it was a week's travel back to the
nearest station with an FTL relay."

"So for us, that's… oh." Mental arithmetic caught up with what he was saying.
"Ten _years?_"

"Should be less. Kirk told me once that the Dominion and Alliance both offer a
big reward for picking up castaways, so we should be grabbed as soon as we're
back within a few hundred light years of a major spacelane." He coughed, and
there was a rattle in it. "'Course, that still leaves us God-knows how far
from medical attention… "

"Just give us the best-case, babe." Allison groaned. "How long?"

"…About… five or six years." Julian admitted. It wasn't much of an
improvement.

"Does this thing even have supplies for that long?" Xiu asked, not even
wanting to _think_ about trying to recover in that cramped little space
without a doctor or room to exercise.

"It doesn't need them. It has a stasis field."

"So you hit the button and we're either rescued instantly or we die
instantly." Allison said. "Great."

He shrugged, eloquently expressing with just his shoulders that it was a
better option than dying slowly in a little box with no room to even stand up.
"Shall I?"

Allison hauled herself up with a little "_nnngh_" sound through gritted teeth
and kissed him, just a one-second meeting of lips. To Xiu's surprise, she
leaned over and gave _her_ a kiss too, on the forehead. "You ready?" she
asked.

Xiu swallowed, and nodded. "I'm ready," she lied.

Julian pressed the button.

Later in her life, Xiu often wrestled with the question of whether or not she
truly experienced that moment stretched out thin like the universe had
stuttered, or if it was just her memory playing tricks on her.

No sooner had he pushed it than there was a voice talking to them, in what was
unmistakably real, spoken English rather than a translation.

"_Hello in there. You're being rescued by the United States Air Force._" it
said. "_Before we pop the hatch, we just want to warn you guys that we're
humans from Earth, so if there's any special precautions you need us to take
to protect you from harm, you let us know._"

Julian tapped their end of the comm. "No need, pal." he grunted, stress and
fear clearly falling off him, despite the tortured edge to his voice. "We're
American."

"Hey!" Xiu objected, faintly appalled at herself for still caring about the
difference right now.

"…Alright, two Americans and one Canadian."

"_Three humans? Jackpot! You all okay in there?_"

_"_Three cases of recent vacuum exposure." Julian put it straight out there.
"We _really_ need a doctor, fella."

_"Copy that. Sit tight folks, we'll have you out of there in a minute._"

The hatch opened sixty seconds later practically to the second, and a handsome
face in some kind of pressure suit, minus the helmet, looked inside.

Even in her ravaged condition, Xiu found time to wonder whether _every_ man in
space was gorgeous or if she was just that starved, but this guy looked like
he'd be able to wrestle Hercules with one arm and punch out Thor with the
other. He was a long way shy of tall - in fact he was shorter than Julian -
but the body under that pressure suit must have been pure muscle: Everything
he lacked in height, he packed on in breadth and depth.

"Shit, you guys weren't kidding about the medical attention," he commented,
revealing himself to be the same voice from the radio, and hauled himself
easily into their capsule.

"You should see the other guy," Allison quipped.

"Hah! _Bueno_." He turned and said something to whoever was waiting outside,
then ran a practiced eye over the three of them and approached Xiu first.

"Hey, can you try and grip my hand for me?" he asked. When he took her hand,
he felt strong enough to crush the bones to powder, and he put another hand on
her opposite shoulder. She felt a curious coldness there for a second.

She tried. She really did. But her fingers barely twitched, and she swallowed
down on her fear.

"Okay, that's fine. I'm just gonna get this board under you and we'll get you
taken care of, alright?"

The easy way he inveigled a board under her body in the cramped space and
strapped her to it proved it. This guy was _strong_, in a way that made Xiu
reflect briefly on what it must have been like for the Gaoians whenever they
got a demonstration of her own strength.

"What's your name?" he asked, hauling her out of the life raft as easily as if
she was made of packing foam and laughter, and managing to avoid exacerbating
the deep ache in her bones.

"Uh…" It was hard to remember for a second, but the knowledge came back to
her. Her vision was going funny, darkening at the edges. "I'm Xiu. Xiu Chang."

"Nice to meet you, Xiu." he replied, as somebody took the other end of her
board and together they lifted her onto a gurney.

"A-a-and you?" she asked, though it was hard to find volume for some reason.
"Uh… what's your name?"

He took her hand, and there as a power in his grip that she used to anchor
herself to the _right here_ and _right now_. She was home. She was safe. She
just had to hold on a little longer.

After all she'd been through, she knew she could do it.

"I'm Adam." he told her, and his name carried her down into a place where
dreams could never find her. "Staff Sergeant Adam Ares, USAF Pararescue."

