# The Fifth Year | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 9y 3d AV**

**London, England, Earth**

**Sean Harvey**

First Contact Day had come and gone without much in the way of incidents for
Sean. He'd had quite a lonely Christmas and New Year, too--the former had been
spent playing EVE Online. The latter was forgotten - he'd woken up in Ava's
bed at her place, with Charlotte and Ben in the other room, a Homerian
hangover, no clear memory of anything after about six pm the preceding year,
and no Ava.

There was Ava now, though, dusting snow off the shoulders of the expensive
blended wool coat that Adam had splashed on for her during his first winter
visit as Sean let her in.

She gave him a warm grin. "Hey lover!"

Sean managed the first genuine smile he'd been able to produce in a couple of
weeks. "You'd better stop calling me that, you know." he replied. "We don't
want you to accidentally use it around Adam."

If the suggestion put a dent in Ava's mood, she didn't show it. Instead, to
his surprise she kissed him with a smile and brushed past him into the living
room. "Well, I'll keep using it so long as it's true." she asserted, lightly.

"…How long is it going to be true for?" Sean asked.

"Oh come on, you're going to lay the heavy stuff on me right after I get
back?" Ava teased. "Come on, how was your new year?!"

"I, uh…woke up in your bed with a splitting headache."

"Not for the first time!"

"Yeah, but you weren't there and I wasn't naked."

She tutted. "See, I know what you're doing wrong there. You should have picked
somebody up, had a good time."

"In _your_ bed?"

"Sure!" she nodded, casting herself down on the couch and tugging her scarf
out of her collar. "Just change the sheets, you know?"

"Let me guess, _you_ got laid at New Years."

"_Oh_ yeah." She nodded, and her eyebrows emphasised the point. "He's…very
physical, you know? He likes to rough-house, and hug, and tickle, and…"

"Fuck your brains out?" Sean asked, in his best dry tone.

"You said it, not me!" She sat forward, concerned. "I'm sorry, are you…okay?"

Sean sighed. "Look. I love you. You know that, I've said it before. Seeing you
so happy with somebody else is…"

Her expression fell, and so did her gaze, so that she was looking at the
carpet.

"…It makes me really happy." Sean finished.

Ava frowned at him "…That's not how I expected that sentence to go." she
admitted.

Sean shifted seats and sat next to her. "I think if anybody's going to get how
that feels it's you, though." he said. "Being both…really happy for somebody,
but also hurting at the same time because you know their happiness is coming
at the expense of your own?"

She nodded, eyes downcast again.

He stood to make her a cup of tea, and was nearly to the door when she spoke
again. "You know I love you too, right?"

He hadn't been expecting _that_ at all, and just turned to give her the very
reference image of a bewildered stare.

"I mean it!" She added. Having unbuttoned her coat, she left it behind as she
stood up and slipped her arms around his waist. "I love you, Sean. I owe you
_everything_, how could I not?"

Sean blinked a bit as that sank in, and then wrapped her up in his own arms
and held on, fighting back tears.

Sure enough, Ava had turned on her own waterworks, but this time it was a kind
of happy cry, not the misery he was so used to seeing. "I guess I've got a
thing for selfless guys." she said.

"I'm not selfless." Sean disagreed, shaking his head against the side of hers.
"I still wish you'd choose me."

"But you're going to let it happen?"

"Yeah" Sean didn't even hesitate on that one. "If it's what you want."

She sighed, and kissed him, gently, on the cheek. "Lover, in some ways you're
more of a man than he'll ever be."

Sean let her go, not knowing how to respond to that. "Cup of tea?"

She laughed. "Okay fine, be all British." she teased. "I just want you to know
that…I'm sorry. I know this is cruel on you."

"_C'est la vie_." He shook his head, forgiving her. "We're not calling it off
_just_ yet though, are we? There's still a little while."

"I think we're past the point where I need somebody to carry me, now." Ava
said, and his heart sank a little. "So…let's just enjoy each other, okay? No
more drama, no more…heavy stuff. Just love. Can we do that?"

"Nothing would make me happier."

They kissed again, a deep and affectionate one that was a marked contrast to
the unregulated release-valve for pent-up emotions that had been their
relationship so far, and left them both smiling.

He felt warm and alive.

"So…" Ava said. "Cup of tea?"

**Date Point: 9y 2m 1w AV**  
**San Diego National Memorial, San Diego County, Southern California, USA, Earth**

**Gabriel Ares**

The part Gabriel had trouble with was how _clean_ the destruction had been.

A nuke the same size as the antimatter blast that had destroyed his home, his
friends and his life would have thrust a spear of radioactive fallout deep
into the heart of the USA, maybe even as far as Denver. Certainly, nobody
would have been able to visit the Grand Canyon or Las Vegas again for
centuries.

While the antimatter had created some very strange ionization effects at
ground zero, these had faded inside minutes. It had, in its way, been a very
clean wound. Buildings had been smashed apart, flattened or just plain
vaporised. The crater had filled with sea water, creating a plume of steam
that had been visible from space and which had altered the local weather. The
wildfires had burned for _months._

The whole city had been written off. There were only some sixteen hundred
survivors or so, most of whom had moved on and tried to keep on living. They
had lost a few--a cancer patient who'd been out of town visiting a specialist
in Los Angeles, several suicides, and a young married couple who'd died
somewhere up Mount Everest a year after the blast--but most of them were now
established in getting on with the business of just being alive, and with new
cities now being built on planets _other_ than Earth…

Well, resettling San Diego would have just felt like walking on peoples'
graves.

Nature, naturally, had no such qualms, and in five years the debris field had
overgrown with hardy shrubs like Creosote Bush and Manzanita, plus ferns and
grasses. A few young trees had even found a home among the rubble, but by and
large the ruins of San Diego belonged to wildflowers and delicate flowering
bushes, the perfume of which was carried up the hillside by clean sea air.

It was beautiful.

The memorial planning had taken five years, and was intended to involve every
one of the survivors, or somebody on their behalf. The idea was simple--an
eternal flame had been set up, an elegant silver teardrop with holes around
its equator that, when lit, should send flames flowing up and around the metal
to lick off the top. It was mounted atop a five foot pole on a hillside
overlooking the downtown crater.

The participants had all been asked to find a flat stone from wherever they
had gone on to live, preferably as heavy as they could comfortably lift, and
send it to the artist for preparation.

Adam's slab of Cimbrean green slate, with its lone alien fossil, had caused
quite a stir. He'd taken some of his precious leave time in order to deliver
it, on the grounds that the artist might not believe that anybody could
comfortably lift it, and Gabriel would have paid good money to see the look on
the guy's face when his boy walked in cradling an enormous chunk of alien
geology in his arms.

That Cimbrean fossil now took pride of place. The artist had carved a groove
to fit half the flame's supporting pole and Adam's contribution now sat at the
heart of the tribute, peeking out of the top with the little spidery, whiskery
thing that had once died in those ancient layers of extraterrestrial silt just
peeking out of the top.

Everybody's stone was visible, though. Even the very smallest one, a tiny
palm-sized thing contributed by a little boy who had been just three months
old at the time of the blast, visiting his grandparents in New Hampshire.

It was amazing hearing what some of them had got up to over five years. Moving
off-world and joining the military seemed to be almost _tame_ next to some of
the stuff a few of the others had got up to. A beat cop that Gabriel had never
met but shared SDPD history with had gone into the FBI and had talked down a
hostage situation in Mississipi. There was a man from Linda Vista who'd become
a monk, and a doctor from Alvarado for whom this was the first time setting
foot on American soil since the tragedy.

For Gabe's part, standing up for a long while was finally becoming less of a
challenge. Five years of exercise and physiotherapy hadn't repaired the nerve
damage in his leg, but the muscles were stronger and steadier, his arms had
strengthened to cope with resting his weight on his stick, and he no longer
shook when standing upright for any length of time. It still hurt a bit, and
always would, but he was spared the indignity of needing to sit down when so
many others were standing respectfully.

There wasn't a ceremony, exactly. They just circled the memorial, touching it,
examining it, finding their stone and then, watched by the news cameras, the
little boy stepped forward with a lit taper on the end of a pole, and touched
it to the teardrop at the top.

It lit, flared, flickered, stabilized, and they watched the heat brown the
metal.

Then, in ones, twos and threes, they turned away and left behind, having
finally said goodbye.

**John "Baseball" Burgess**

"Okay, it's a fucking _sauna_ in here."

Warhorse had always struggled with the heat. He was just so big nowadays, and
so dense, that he actively struggled if the temperature crept above seventy or
so. Hell, ALL of the Operators were like that, but Adam had it worst.

A busy restaurant in LA during a heatwave was really not his environment at
all.

"If you need to step outside to cool down a minute, it's okay Grillsteak." Ava
told him.

John nodded his agreement, out of equal parts concern for his friend's
comfort, and seeing an opportunity to have a private word with Ava.

He'd been suspicious from the moment her forgiveness email came in after the
move to Folctha. Even sitting down the deck of a C5, he'd been able to hear
her shouting, and it had been FAR from the first such instance. It seemed like
every letter or contact between Adam and his girl had gone tense or angry at
some point, even when she'd sent him an envelope full of pictures of herself
in pin-up poses wearing some of his old T-shirts--an event that Adam had been
forced to endure much whooping, whistling and good-natured teasing about.

And then suddenly…all was forgiven? And there hadn't been a single angry word
since? Not so much as a bitter comment or a terse email?

John was certain he knew what that meant. Been there, done that, with two or
three different girls in his life.

The problem was, he had no _proof_, which was why he'd been planning to talk
to her very carefully and gently without going as far as an actual
confrontation. Deep inside, he was a _long_ way shy of impressed with her,
even if he wasn't quite ready to commit to angry just yet.

But, he had no proof.

Adam nodded, and gratefully excused himself to get some cool air, leaving Ava
sipping at her Mojito opposite John.

"So…" he said, the moment his friend had awkwardly shouldered his way past the
astonished diners and out of earshot. "Things are going way better with you
two."

She nodded happily around her drinking straw but didn't comment.

That hadn't gone as he'd planned it.

"I'm glad. Y'know, he was…off his game there for a while, after the move to
Folctha."

"Yeah." she agreed. "I wasn't exactly fair on him."

That hadn't gone as planned either.

Fuck it. Direct approach it was.

"Look…Ava, call me paranoid, but when things go from that bad to that good
overnight, it makes me suspicious."

"Are you a naturally suspicious person?" She asked, helping herself to a bread
stick.

"If something seems too good to be true…" John replied, keeping eye contact.

She stopped chewing, and frowned at him as she swallowed. "What are you
driving at, Baseball? Don't dance around, put it out there."

"…Have you found somebody else?"

She did something wholly unexpected and _giggled_. "Are you out of your-?
Where would I find somebody to replace Adam?"

"Well…speaking from experience here, but maybe anybody who's _there_ might
have been better for you, for a bit. Just to tide you over. Am I near the mark
there?"

The couple of rapid blinks she managed and her slightly _too_ neutral
expression told him that he was. "Yeah? Speaking from experience, are you?"

"Yeah."

"So you've cheated on your girls." She stated.

"Once or twice." he agreed.

"Why?"

"Young, dumb and horny. What's your excuse?"

"I haven't done anything to excuse." She replied.

John saw right through that one--it may have had the _words_ of a denial, but
he knew an evasion when he heard it. "What, you think it's okay?"

"Yeah, actually. I do."

Things went off-script for John for the third time. "Uh…"

"Look, you said it yourself, he was off his game without me." Ava told him.
"Well, he's still **got** me. And _yeah_, okay? It's because I found somebody
to _'tide me the fuck over_'. You want to talk about what's okay? Is it _okay_
to yank somebody around by their heart for four years? Is it _okay_ for you to
shove your nose in and suggest that my _whole life_ should be about Adam?"

She leaned forward, and the only other person that John had ever seen wear a
steel glare like that was Major Powell. "_Especially_ when you've done it
yourself? _Fuck_ you! I don't owe you _or_ Adam a goddamn apology."

A nearby diner cleared his throat and looked away, and she lowered her voice
again. "Maybe you should stop thinking of me as '_Adam's girl_' or '_the thing
that keeps him going'._" she added, allowing the word '_thing_' to freeze
solid with contempt as she said it. "I'm **Ava.** I'm not _his_, I'm _mine_.
And if I do whatever it takes to back him up and help him, it's because I
_want_ to! You understand?"

"And I'm not just some meathead grunt." John shot back. "I'm his brother,
okay? I'm looking out for him. I'm not gonna let anybody hurt him."

"You and me both." she retorted, then sat back and picked up her Mojito. "We
done?"

John paused, then nodded slowly and extended a hand over the table. "…it'd
hurt him if we weren't friends." he pointed out.

"Yeah, it would." she sipped her drink, not returning the gesture. "You
proposing a truce?"

"Are we cool?"

"We're not cool, no." She replied, but leaned forward and shook his hand. "But
you said it, I'm not gonna let anybody hurt him."

Good enough.

By the time Adam returned with a waiter bearing a pedestal fan, he was
delighted to find them getting along like old friends.

**Date Point: 9y 2m 2w AV**

**HMS Sharman, Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**James "Legsy" Jones**

"Fair play, boys, I'm impressed…but for the love of fuck, _why_ and _how?_"

"Come on, Legs. Both our Protectors are away, we wanted to surprise them."
Stevenson told him.

"With _this?!_"

"Hell yeah! They put those fuckin' stupid Feet of theirs on everything, it's
_our_ turn to leave our mark!"

"So the four of you painted a castle on our water tower." Legsy put a hand to
his brow to shade his eyes and get a better look at it.

"Only fair." Sikes drawled. "They put little feet on everything, we put a
frickin' huge castle on ONE thing."

"Quality over quantity." Vandenberg nodded.

"That the motto of your love life, Rebar?" Price asked, and accepted a high-
five from Murray.

"What can I say, your sister's the best."

"Oh, you fucking didn't-!"

Rebar tried to scoot away and hide behind Titan as Price made a friendly grab
for him, but Aggressors were, by training and vocation, so much faster and
nimbler on their feet than Defenders. There was pretty soon a good-natured
brotherly scuffle in the dirt, with Price grinding his fist painfully against
Rebar's head and both men laughing.

"Okay, you lot are way too full of beans." Legsy commented, bringing the rough
play to an immediate halt. "Tell you what. If you're all so eager to prove
that you can climb as well as our PJs do, there's a load of windows on the
main office building that've never been washed. I reckon the Major'll be
fuckin' impressed if they're all nice and sparkling clean at the end of the
day, and he might give Admiral Knight the nod for letting that castle you put
on his water tower stay there…"

"Aww, _Legs!_" Titan complained.

"What? I'm just making a suggestion." Legs folded his arms and grinned.
"Because otherwise you're going to have to go back up there anyway and strip
that nice castle you worked so hard to paint right off it again, aren't you?"

The Defenders exchanged glances. "We'll…go get the climbing gear." Vandenberg
said.

"Fuck aye." Legsy nodded. "Have fun."

He let them get on with it, and made a mental note to get the drone footage
that Sikes had _definitely_ taken, even if he'd deny it at first. It'd put the
Major in a good mood to watch it, he knew.

"And won't Adam an' Baseball have a surprise when they get back…" he asked of
nobody, turning back to admire the impromptu mural once again. Considering it
had been done in the dead of night by four men in climbing gear fifty feet in
the air, it was remarkably good. They must have been sneaking up there for
_days_ pencilling in the outline.

Adam and Baseball, meanwhile, would be back from leave in two days.

He gave it three days before there were Feet somewhere on that castle.

**Date Point: 9y 2m 2w 2d AV**  
**London, England, Earth**

**_Sean Harvey_**

"Hey."

"Hey. I saw you on the news. That's quite a memorial they built."

"Yeah."

Sean smiled as Ava hung her coat up and kissed him, then frowned at the door.
"No Charlotte or Ben?"

"Tonight's…not really appropriate for them."

Her tone of voice finally got through to him, and Sean sighed. "You're calling
it off, aren't you?"

"You always knew I was going to sometime soon."

"Always kind of hoped you wouldn't." he replied, but his heart wasn't in it.
He'd known there was no changing her mind.

"…Come to bed." She offered.

"I thought you were calling it off?"

"I am." she agreed. "So let's make the last time special."

"…Alright. Grab your coat."

"Huh?"

"I want more than just '_come to bed_', duck. It's a nice day out - let's use
it."

Bemused, Ava put her coat back on and he took her hand.

It wasn't a lavish date--at the best of times, Sean barely had enough money
coming in to keep on top of his bills, council tax and student fees, meaning
that any romantic notions of paying for expensive romantic moments like horse-
drawn carriage rides in the park or whatever were out.

Mostly, they walked, held hands, talked and just enjoyed one another's
company. Sean's fitness had improved hugely over the years, from daily walks
with her. Previously he would have been sore and tired after a mile--now, a
three hour gentle stroll down Archway Road and through Holloway to the City
and onto Garden Bridge didn't trouble him at all.

Sunset was staining the day's few high clouds a brilliant pink and purple by
the time they stood together, looking out over grey waters and Soho,
surrounded by the scent and hissing of plants in the breeze.

"You're right." Ava commented, after they'd been silent a minute or so. "This
is…right."

Sean put his arm round her waist. "It's going to be hard, you know."

"What?"

"Being just your friend."

She looked down at her feet, blinking, then hugged him. "Please try." she
pleaded. "I'd hate to lose you."

"You're not losing me duck." he promised, stroking her hair. "I just said it'd
be hard, not that I couldn't do it."

She let go again, wiping her cheeks dry. "You're a lot tougher than you look,
you know that?"

"You seem to bring out that quality in people."

She didn't answer, just sighed and nuzzled up against him until the sun went
down.

They caught the tube back, still not saying anything. They just held hands on
the walk back to Sean's house. Only once they were inside and the door was
locked did Ava break the comfortable silence.

"Come to bed."

Sean took her hand, and for the last time she led him up the stairs.

**Date Point: 9y 5m AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Jessica Olmstead_**

"THREE! _TWO! **ONE!**_"

Cheers erupted as gravity settled on everybody like a comfortable warm coat.

Jess and Gabe both shared a sigh of relief. There was just something about low
gravity that the human body never quite adapted to. No matter how familiar it
became, no matter how good you got at adjusting your preconceptions on how big
such a small difference really was, there was just something in the bones and
muscles that hankered for good old nine-point-eight meters per second per
second.

The engineers who had installed Folctha's new gravity generator shook hands or
exchanged high-fives, and then got on with the business of tidying up all of
the generator's functional bits into the pedestal of the sculpture that had
been selected to house it.

It was just a modified warp engine really, and therefore disarmingly small--
Jess could have easily held it in one hand. It could have lived hidden away in
any basement or office in Folctha, but public opinion had been that it should
be somewhere that they could visit, and so by far the longest delay in
installing it had been the wait while a sculpture had gone through the process
of being commissioned and built, starting with approaching several different
artists, then putting the matter to public opinion via Cimbrean's burgeoning
colonial internet.

The winning design was equal parts sculpture and water feature, an angular
slate funnel named "Well" that echoed both the artificial gravity well that it
would house, and also a source of water, for which purpose it caught the
predictable nightly Cimbrean rains and allowed the very gravity it was
generating to draw the rainwater through a filter, dispensing it via drinking
fountain.

It now formed the centrepiece of New World Plaza. What had once been just a
field amidst the temporary buildings of the early Folctha colony was now a
brick-paved area with flower beds and market stalls that sold everything from
clothing and blankets, books to hyper-modern gizmos like stasis fridges,
solar-powered drone quadcopters and holographic TVs. There was even an
e-tattoo artist, plus an assortment of missionaries, street preachers and
pamphlet-dispensers.

Folctha, in short, had grown up. There was nothing left of the frontier huddle
of little chalets and dirt roads. Nowadays everything was paved, the roads
designed so that the utilities that ran beneath them could be serviced without
disrupting traffic.

Nowadays, the buildings were three, four, five stories tall and a pale grey
that looked white in the height of the day, hung with lights and banners of
fibre-optic cloth.

Nowadays, the Faith Centre was just the first of many, the original Folctha
Medical Center was now dwarfed by the Sara Tisdale Memorial Hospital, Delaney
Row was a wide avenue lined with young silver birch trees and full of
government buildings.

Everything was inspired by the alien palace that had once stood at the top of
the hill, now rebuilt and permanent home to the Thing. Its looping geometric
lines and rounded rooms had come to define Cimbrean architecture. Nobody
seemed to mind that it was originally Corti architecture--the opportunity to
riff on alien themes had been too good to pass up, and in many ways the coldly
mathematical underpinnings of the original owner's vision had been hugely
exceeded and improved upon.

And now, finally, they were under Earth gravity again.

"You okay?" Jess asked Gabe. He squeezed her hand--despite his improving
fitness, she never did quite manage to not worry about him. She knew he found
it _mostly_ endearing, but she'd rather irritate him sometimes than miss a
moment when he genuinely needed help. He was good about admitting to those,
when they came along.

"That actually feels better." he told her quietly.

"Are you sure?"

"Mmhm." he nodded.

"Chief?"

Cimbrean Colonial Security was Gabe's success story--a modern, trim and
professional police force whose high-vis yellow jackets were a familiar sight
patrolling the city in pairs on foot, on bicycles, and in sturdy electric
SUVs. Gabe had admitted in private that he would have preferred they be armed
but Folctha was, after all, a British colony and the citizens had largely
expressed a preference that their police force not be armed during their
normal duties, reserving the firepower only for when it was needed.

"Yes, Hugh?"

"Bit of a disturbance down in the Alien Quarter, sir."

Jess gave his hand a squeeze, kissed his cheek and pointed a thumb towards
home with a wry smile. "I'll see you later, '_chief_'." she promised.

Gabe gave her a grateful smile and limped alongside Bailey towards the waiting
CCS SUV.

Jess took in the dispersing crowd, and then headed for home.

She had to politely navigate a gauntlet of parents wanting to discuss their
child with her. Despite the known detrimental effects of low gravity on a
child's growth and development, enough families had stuck it out, making do
with trusting the small gravity generator that hummed gently to itself under
Jess' desk and the ones in gyms to make up the difference.

It wasn't entirely clear if that trust was well-founded. None of the kids
seemed to have anything _wrong_ with them, but they were all growing up tall.
Whatever the truth, the concerns had been enough to discourage anybody from
trying to raise infants and toddlers in Folctha. Ever since the Tisdales had
gone back to Earth, every new conception had been grounds for slight communal
sorrow, knowing that one of their neighbours was leaving for however many
years.

Hopefully, the gravity generator would change that. It would certainly save
Jess's job--if the current generation had finished growing up and no new youth
had come along to replace them, the school would have been completely
redundant.

Now, though, there was hope that some of those young parents might return, and
that Folctha could move on with the business of becoming a real, permanent
place for families.

All in all, the future was looking bright.

**Date Point: 9y 6m AV**  
**London, England, Earth**

**_Ava Rios_**

"…so between your online portfolio and your material already being used by
CAUD, you've popped up on our radar as somebody to watch. Would you mind-?"

"Is this guy bothering you, baby?"

The guy in the suit damn near swallowed his tongue when he turned around and
came face-to-face with Adam.

"_Adam!_" Ava had learned not to throw herself too hard into hugging him
nowadays. It was an awful lot like shoulder-barging a wall. Still, it was
difficult to resist. "Oh my God, I didn't think you had any leave left!"

"Just two days." Adam agreed. "So, I've got a flight to catch in ten hours,
but…come on, I wasn't going to miss your graduation!"

She gave him a huge kiss. "Did you see the speech?"

"Yep, on the screen in the lecture hall upstairs. Saw you getting your scroll,
too." He beamed. "Who's this guy?"

"Oh! Uh, Levaughn Thomas, this is my boyfriend Adam."

"Staff Sergeant Ares, I believe." Thomas shook Adam's hand, regaining his
composure.

"Uh…yeah! How'd you know?"

"I've got a working relationship with your father." Mr. Thomas revealed. "He's
_such_ a pleasure to work with."

"Ahh, you're the Byron guy." Adam nodded. "You offering Ava a job?"

Levaughn managed a smile that was microscopically less confident than usual.
"Well…I was just getting to that." he confirmed.

Ava inclined her head with a '_go ahead_' smile, and Levaughn cleared his
throat and handed her a card. "My contact details." he declared. "Please, call
me whenever you're next on Cimbrean and I'll be happy to pencil you in for a
little chat."

"I'll be glad to!" Ava agreed, shaking his hand before slipping the card into
her handbag.

"Damn." Adam commented, watching Thomas leave.

"What?"

"Nothing, I'm just…not used to guys like him."

"You mean you're so used to drowning in testosterone you forgot that camp
dudes exist." Ava teased, and grinned all the more when a blush darkened his
face. "So oh my God, you've got two days leave and you flew over here just to
see me and you're going to have to fly straight back out again?"

"Is…that okay?"

"You didn't _have_ to, beef stock." She kissed him. "But I really appreciate
it."

"And look at you! Getting job offers from the Byron group!" Adam retorted, and
gave her an affectionate one-armed squeeze.

"Oh!" Ava pointed and raised her voice. "_SEAN!_"

To his credit, Sean apparently had genuinely not noticed them, and to his even
greater credit, upon spotting Adam he didn't show any sign of nerves or
steeling himself--he just excused himself from his current conversation and
trotted over.

"Hey." He greeted her as they shared a chaste cheek-kiss. "Congratulations on
the First."

"So you're Sean." Adam stuck a hand out. "Heard a lot about you."

"All good, I hope." Sean winced a little at Adam's grip, but kept his dignity
on pure height. He was nearly half a foot taller than Adam, and while he
easily lost out on mass, he won back in altitude.

"So good it'd almost make a guy jealous!" Adam boomed, and gave him a
friendly, very gentle knuckle to the upper arm. "We'll have to have a drink
sometime, you and me."

"Yeah?"

"Dude, you're Ava's best friend, that means you're automatically, like, one of
my favourite people."

Ava hid a smile behind her hand and mouthed the words '_he is **such** a
puppy_' at Sean.

Sean laughed, and genuinely relaxed for the first time in weeks. "A drink it
is, then."

"So what are you up to, now that you're a graduate?" Adam asked him.

"Oh, my uncle's an investigative journalist." Sean revealed. "I've always
wanted to do what he does, and he promised to take me under his wing so long
as I did well on my course."

"Did you?"

"Well enough." Sean looked forgivably pleased with himself. "Mostly I'm going
to be carrying the bags and managing the phone numbers, but it's all good
experience."

"You're getting paid, right?"

"Please, I wouldn't do an unpaid internship if you paid me." Sean joked.

Adam chuckled. "I knew I'd like you." he said.

Ava tapped him on the arm. "We need to go do the cap-toss and turn the caps
and gowns back in. Are you okay waiting here?" she asked.

"I'll be over there, under the aircon." Adam pointed to an out-of-the-way
corner.

"Okay." she gave him a light kiss and tilted her head toward the doors,
looking at Sean. "Shall we?"

Sean nodded. "Good to meet you, Adam."

"You too, buddy. Take care."

Ava made sure the door was closed before asking him. "So…what do you think?"

"You could do a lot worse, duck." Sean told her.

"You think so?"

"Look." Sean stopped. "It's obvious you two just…light up around each other. I
get it, It's the Ava and Adam show. And I'm happy for you, he really does seem
like a great guy."

"I hear a '_but_' in there."

"…Just…he seems so _earnest_, doesn't he?" Sean chewed on a bit of loose skin
on his lower lip as he thought. "I have this feeling like he's the kind of guy
who makes a plan and sticks to it and maybe doesn't think through the
consequences of that plan so very well."

"Whatever gave you that idea?" Ava drawled.

Sean chuckled, but quickly became serious again.

"Just…be certain that he knows who you are and you know who he is. Okay?" He
pleaded her. "Don't rush in now that you're on the last leg and fall at the
final hurdle."

"I think you're mixing metaphors there."

"_Ava…_"

She held up a peaceful hand. "I hear you, I hear you. And I promise, I will. I
want to be _happy_ with him, after all."

"…And if you can't be?"

"Sean…" she glanced back to make absolutely _certain_ that there was no sign
at all of Adam, then stole a last and tender kiss with him. "I know somebody
else who'd make me just as happy."

"The only difference is…he needs you more."

"He does." She agreed.

"…Alright." he nodded. "Let's go do that photo and get rid of these things,
and then you can go be a hero."

They followed the shouting and gestures out onto the steps in front of the
building, lined up as directed by the photographer, and unpinned their caps
ready to throw.

The countdown started, and Ava couldn't resist one last gesture--just before
they threw their caps into the air, she took Sean's hand.

**Date Point: 9y 7m AV**  
**London, England, Earth**

**_Charlotte Gilroy_**

"Gosh. We really don't have a lot of stuff do we?"

They really didn't. Ben had sold off his course textbooks now that he no
longer needed them, and between them their clothes and assorted possessions,
carefully packed, worked out to two suitcases each and a half-dozen cardboard
boxes.

"It's just settling in, isn't it?" Ben asked. "We're graduates."

"Yeah…Grown, responsible adults." Charlotte laughed nervously, and raised a
fist to face height with a scared smile. "Go us!"

Ben blinked at her, then put down the box he'd been carrying and rubbed her
arms. "Are you okay?"

"…I don't know where we're going or what we're doing." Charlotte told him. "We
kept forgetting to talk about it. Are we going up north, or over to
Southampton, or…?"

"Oh!" Ben turned and dug through the box he'd just set down. "I had an idea
there, actually…"

"You did?"

"Yep!" He replied. "Bear with…here it is!"

He handed her the kind of slim pamphlet so beloved of tourist attractions and
the enthusiastically religious. She frowned at it. "Folctha?"

"Look, see?" Ben tapped the page, and his tattoos, with their usual immaculate
sense of timing, chose that moment to animate the moon changing phases as it
orbited the Earth. "They finished installing this big city-wide gravity
generator last month, which means the whole of Folctha is constantly under
Earth gravity now."

"I don't know…I mean, it _would_ be nice to be close to Ava, but do we have
any skills they're going to want?"

"Well, I'm a civil engineering graduate, and _you're_ a midwife." Ben pointed
out. "Now, A: they're building new structures and roads and stuff all the time
out there, but more importantly…before that gravity generator was built,
nobody in Folctha could have babies because of the low gravity being bad for
child development."

Charlotte blinked at him, then at the pamphlet. "But now it's turned
on…they're going to need midwives!"

"Sounds like a plan?" He asked.

"It sounds like an _excellent_ plan!"

"Well, there's one more part to it…"

"Wha-?"

Ben was already on one knee, and Charlotte's hands flew involuntarily to her
mouth.

"I love you, Charlotte. Will you marry me?"

The word "yes" needed a full two minutes to finally find its way out of her.

Fortunately, she remembered how to nod long before then, and by the time it
arrived, she was already wearing the ring he'd sold his textbooks to buy.

**Date point: Christmas Day, 9y 11m 3w AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches.**

**_Ava Rios_**

"So…Here it is! Merry Christmas!"

There were a couple of options here. Either Adam had gone completely nuts, or
there was something special about the building that he was standing in front
of and beaming about. Either way, it wasn't immediately apparent what the big
surprise he'd been talking about all day might be.

She examined it as his proud smile wilted slightly. It was a four-storey new
build, clad in the distinctive local pale grey stone that Folctha's
architectural planning board had settled on to play an important role in their
vision for the city's aesthetic. The whole of Folctha was going to look clean
and shiny, and mercifully characterful, with its organic nest of curves rather
than straight, bland lines.

This one was on Demeter Road, which hadn't even existed when the pair of them
had left Cimbrean. Now it was one of the town's major thoroughfares, leading
in one direction toward Delaney Row and Palace Hill, and in the other towards
an outlying agricultural town called Demeter, which in turn had road
connections on to Big Bay and New Bristol.

The ground floor was all windows, and plainly unfurnished, but the sign was in
place: "The Dog House." and below that, in slightly smaller letters:
"Strength, Nutrition, Fitness."

"A gym?" she asked.

"Yep! Titan's always wanted to have one, so I chipped in the money to buy the
building alongside him."

"You own a _building?!_"

"Well, we both had that big homesteading grant to draw on and, y'know property
prices are so cheap round here right now we figured we'd probably be able get
something _else_ each, too if we joined forces on this one…" Adam shrugged.
"So, he owns the gym and the basement, and I own the rest."

"Holy _shit_ Adam!" She looked up and down the street calculating. "You
realise that by the time you've paid the loan off this thing'll be worth,
like, triple what you paid for it?"

"Yep." He beamed that big puppy smile. "It's an investment."

"So what's the rest?"

"Come and see."

He led her round the side of the building, to a well-lit parking area and a
door with a number pad. "Code's three-three-eight-six." he said, entering it.
The door buzzed and admitted them into a clean stairwell with a nice tiled
floor, plus the fire exit from the gym and the door down to the basement.

Ava shrugged and followed him as he bounded up the stairs, to the top floor.

"Penthouse suite!" he announced, unlocking it with a key.

"Holy…Adam, this is _gorgeous!_" Ava stepped into it and looked around. The
penthouse was a studio apartment, with the bedroom partitioned off from the
open-plan kitchen and dining area by means of the bathroom. Adam must have
accidentally intimidate the contractors or something, because the fittings and
decor were amazing--white counters with dark wood surfaces, wood flooring, and
warm indirect lighting throughout. It was maybe missing a few personal touches
like artwork and furniture, but other than that…

What was more, it had stairs leading up to the roof which Adam rushed to
unlock with a grin, beckoning her to follow.

"And the view from the roof…" he said, gesturing out across it.

It took Ava's breath away. She could see the Palace, and the still-lit smart
fabric spike of the Thing hall, currently pulsing through festive green, white
and red. The alien quarter, protected from harmful Deathworlder diseases,
pollens and spores by a triple layered dome of filter forcefields that glowed
very faintly in the dark and dominated by the Gaoian enclave slash monastery.
She could see the New World Plaza where this year's Christmas tree was a
beacon of warm light, and from which music could still be heard drifting over
the streets and rooftops.

"You can see the lake from here too during the day, and: good news. From what
I heard, it's going to be getting a clean bill of health from the Reclamation
Project pretty soon." Adam told her, then turned to her. "What do you think?"

"I think…wow, you really got this right. You're going to have a tidy fortune
in a few years…What're you going to do, rent this out, or…?"

"The two apartments downstairs, yeah." Adam said. He took her hand and put
something small, metallic and jagged in it. "The penthouse is yours."

Ava was so surprised that she almost dropped the key. "You're-? Adam, you're
_kidding_?!"

"Nope. You need somewhere to live, right? So, live here. If you want to pay
rent on it, I can shove it in a savings account or something, whatever."

He took her hand and gently towed her downstairs again--she was so stunned
that she followed him automatically.

"Furniture's coming day after tomorrow." he said. "Sorry, I'd hoped to have it
all in, but the timing…"

"It's…don't apologize, I…Adam, are you sure?"

"Totally sure." he told her. "And, um…I was thinking…y'know, I'm back here
now, you're back here now, and I thought we could…" He brought his hand into
view. It had a little black cube in it, which split down the middle. "…make up
for lost time."

It was a beautiful ring. A delicate moebius loop of white gold, spun back on
itself so that it was almost _two_ rings, joined by a blue diamond. It was
exquisite, and she stared at it sadly.

The moment attenuated until Adam finally inclined his head slightly and asked,
in a vulnerable tone she hadn't heard since he'd asked her on their first
date, "…Ava?"

She had to wind up into her question, her head moving in a slow shaking
movement before she tore her gaze off the ring and looked at his face. This
was all so _amazing_ that part of her was sorely tempted to just hold her hand
out, say yes and have done with it.

But Sean had still been right.

"…What am I to you, Adam?" she asked.

He frowned, lowering the box unconsciously. "I don't…uh, what do you mean?"

"What am I to you?" she repeated. "What do I mean to you?"

"Well, you're…" he began, then seemed to trip mid-thought. "You're my-"

"I'm _your_? Your what?"

He shook his head again. "No you're…you're _you_."

"I'm your me?"

"No, you're _your_ you!"

She nodded fiercely. "And _what. Am. I?_"

He spread his hands helplessly. "I don't know what you want from me." he
confessed.

She spelled it out for him. "Do you love me?"

She could _see_ his instinctive response coming and snapped up a hand to stop
him. "I know you _do_!" she added. "But there's…look, over the last five years
we've barely seen each other, and that '_barely_' was mostly getting together
every few months to…to screw as much as possible between your training
sessions!"

"Can you stand there and honestly claim to love me, _really_ love me, if
that's all we've had for so long? Do you even know who I am any more?" She
waved her hand up and down him, gesturing to everything that had changed about
him since they had been seventeen. "I mean…Do I love _you_ or a memory of you?
You've changed a lot, and so have I. If we're going to work, if we're going to
be together, then we both need to know that we love each other for who we are
_now_."

His mouth closed, and very, very slowly, he looked away. Ava deflated.
"Then…Adam, _corazon_, I'm so sorry, but…this is all amazing, but…no. I can't
marry you. Not yet, not until…" She trailed off, knowing that she had to leave
that door opening, but not knowing what more to say.

Adam pocketed the ring. "I'll, uh…" he coughed. "I'll…stay on the base
tonight, I guess."

She nodded, and stepped aside. Adam squeezed past her and out the door.

"You, uh…this place is still yours, for as long as you want it." he told her.
"I'll…see you around I guess."

Ava nodded. "Yeah." she croaked. "See ya."

He turned away and creaked unsteadily down the stairs, so she shut the door
then leaned against it.

That done, she let go and slid down to the floor in tears. He'd looked so
_broken_.

"_GONE!! It's all gone! All of it's gone bye-bye WOOWOO seeya!_"

_"What **happened** to you?"_

_"One minute you're defending the whole galaxy, and suddenly you find yourself
suckin' down darjeeling with Marie Antoinette and her little sister…"_

Movie night for the Operators was frequently an exercise in cramming ten men
onto a single oversized three-seat couch, custom built to SOR requirements by
Rebar and crew. It was huge, strong, and comfy, with plenty of room for even
their massive frames to sit and spread out.

At least, on a normal day. Movie night, on the other hand, taxed even its
over-engineered limits when ten Spaceborne Operators crammed onto it in a
tangle of limbs, using each other as pillows, sitting on each others' laps,
and thinking nothing of being so wrapped up in the puppy pile that it would
once, in their younger civilian years, have made them deeply uncomfortable.

Nowadays? It was fraternal, and comforting. All of their training, the
constant physical closeness, the team-building and the end result of all they
had been through together meant they were entirely comfortable with almost
_too_ high a degree of physical intimacy.

This created occasional problems.

"Whose legs are these? Yo Titan, these yours?"

"How the fuck are they mine, I'm all the way over here!"

"Well _one_ of you assholes needs to move his feet, I gotta piss!"

A few of the guys wiggled their feet experimentally while a crazed astronaut
ranted on the screen. "_You see the hat? I am MRS! NESBITT!!_"

"Oh. Shit. Sorry bruv."

"Man, get off me!"

The knot untangled enough for Baseball to squeeze out from under it and roll
over the back of the couch, and they collapsed back inwards as the guys found
new comfortable spots to fill the void.

"_But…the hat looked good? Tell me the hat looked good…the apron is a bit much
but-_"

"Man, even Toy Story isn't cheering him up."

Adam sighed. "Nah, it's…helping." he promised.

"Pull the other one, pal." Legsy admonished him.

Adam just snuggled into the couch a bit further and tried to watch.

""I just…can't figure it out." he said. "I was away from HER for all those
years as well, you know? It wasn't like being away from her for that long was
easy for _me_ either."

Akiyama spoke up. "Women are high maintenance, man." he shared.

Price snorted. "Fuck off, you've got less experience with women than Warhorse
does."

Akiyama took the insult with a smile "You wanna talk about getting laid,
little man?"

Price shrugged."Okay, what d'you want to know?"

There was a collective "WOOAH!!" and a round of high-fives.

"Nah, boys, fuckin'…" Legsy tried to chime in as it died down, but Adam
plainly wasn't in the mood. He lifted half the guys off him at once, slithered
out from under them, and stood up.

"I'll…be in the gym." he announced.

There was a long moment of silence after he'd gone. Nobody was paying
attention to the movie anymore.

"He's real tore up, ain't he?"

"They were together a long time." Legsy said. "This shit's not helping, he
doesn't need a puppy pile, he needs advice."

"You're the one to give it then, Legs." Price noted. "Go be big brother."

"…Yeah. Think you're right."

Legsy waited until the movie was done before he intruded in the gym. Adam was
casually swinging a bulky jerry can around one-handed like a kettlebell,
working up a good sheen of sweat.

"Going kinda light aren't you?" Legsy asked him. The gravity was set at 1G,
Earth Standard, and if that can was full of water then it was far below Adam's
potential.

"You think so?" Adam asked. "There's a spare right there if you want to join
in."

Legsy shrugged. His own fitness regime focused on speed and explosive force as
a rule, but this wasn't about him, right now. He picked up the can.

Or at least, he tried to. It wasn't full of water, that was for damn sure--he
barely rocked it when he tried to grab it, and he didn't get it off the ground
until he stood over it properly and treated it as a lift.

"Fuckin'…_CHRIST!_" he dropped it again. "What's in that?"

"Buckshot." Adam's trademark goofy grin put in a cameo reappearance, a good
deal more melancholy than usual but at least it was - finally - a break in his
bad mood.

"You little shit, there's no way you're swinging THAT around like that, put it
down let me…"

Adam shrugged and did so. Legsy had been half-right--the one he had been using
was a bit lighter, but still far heavier than Legsy could have used for
endurance training like that.

"Two thirds full." Adam revealed. In the meanwhile, he'd picked up the big can
and was now slowly and deliberately performing stiff, one-armed shoulder
raises. The motion was much like a kettleball swing, but without the use of
momentum to aid the lift, making it a _much_ more difficult exercise. Legsy
watched in silent admiration as, in the space of about a minute, he went from
merely sweaty to dripping.

He set the can down, huffing with a satisfied expression. "I'm not heavy
enough to swing the the big one without the suit. Not yet, anyway. Hell, even
in the tighter and heavier midsuit 'Base and I switched to, and even with the
added armor plating we wear now, and even with a full combat load, swinging it
is tricky. The momentum just throws me around, man. Which…y'know, hurts."

"Aye," said Legsy. "Seems to drain you right quick, too."

"Uh huh. Liftin' _really_ heavy makes me sweat so much I can get dehydrated in
just a couple of minutes if I ain't careful. But that's only when I ain't
wearin' the suit, and only if I do something big like this. So without the
suit I work intervals and switch off between the two cans."

"You been at this since the movie?"

"Yup. This is my eighth set." He picked up the lighter can and start swinging
again. "Slowly gettin' better. A few months ago? This woulda practically
killed me. Now it's just a good workout."

Legsy said nothing for a long moment, then made a disbelieving little noise
and shook his head. "Fuckin' Christ mate, just how fuckin' strong ARE you?"

Adam shrugged, put down the can, then burrowed around in his open locker and
produced a little hand-sized notepad. When Legsy flipped it open, what he
found pencilled in was a list of exercises, and numbers. They were all crossed
off.

"What's this?"

"World records." Adam shrugged again. "It's the Crude, man. Thanks to that
shit, I'm probably the strongest person in the galaxy."

"Yeah, maybe. Probably. I met that Saunders bloke we learned about Cruezzir
from in the first place. He looked about as big as you, but taller. Longer
bones, less mechanical advantage." Legsy mused, then handed back the notepad.
"And he din't train like you, neither." He added. "Is this…wise?"

"Probably not." Adam conceded. "But, how long have we got until the resistance
kicks in? I guess if Ava thinks I gave up on her for this, and maybe she's
right. Maybe I did…."

He trailed off, then reset. "I guess if she thinks that then maybe that's all
I have right now, is getting the best out of this stuff before I start to
become immune."

"Fuck me, you're a stupid twat sometimes, pal." Legsy shook his head. Adam
frowned at him--it hadn't been the typical laddish insult between brothers-in-
arms, but had sounded like a genuine appraisal of his intelligence.

"What?"

"If she thinks you gave up on her, then that means she wants you to start
workin' on her again, doesn't it!"

"Does it?"

Legsy sighed and laughed, shaking his head. "Siddown, Adam." he said. "Let me
tell you the ways of the women folk."

Adam frowned at him, but obeyed, perching atop the same can he'd just been
training with.

Legsy sat opposite him. "What exactly did she say to you?" he asked.

"She asked me…'_what am I to you_?'. Uh…what is she to me, you know?"

"Right…?"

"And then, she, uh…she told me to tell her honestly that I still love her
after all those years going away and…that kind of thing."

"Well that wasn't exactly fair of her…" Legsy opined. "But alright."

"What do you mean?"

"Well…okay, gut response here, one word, first one that springs to mind…"
Legsy suggested "…DO you love her?"

"Yes!"

"Good. Right. but here's the next question: What IS love? And none of that
'_Baby don't hurt me_' crap."

"…huh?"

"Eh, that's maybe a bit before your time." Legsy allowed. "But go on, try and
answer it."

"Well, it's…" Adam thought about it. "Love, it's an emotion, right?"

"Half right. You can _feel_ love, and you _can_ love, right? You can _do_
love, not just feel it."

"A verb." Adam nodded.

"Fuckin' right. You've got love the, uh…" Legsy clicked his fingers as he
searched his memory. "Whatsit, the noun?"

"Yeah."

"So.…yeah. You love her, but you don't _love_ her, see? Noun love versus verb
love."

"You're saying she needs both?" Adam asked him.

"Secret one about women, mate: A lot of the time, the verb counts for more
with them than the noun, like. And, secret one about blokes: by and large,
we're the other way round."

"Come on!" Adam protested. "They're more complicated than that. SHE'S more
complicated than that!"

Legsy shrugged. "How d'you know somebody loves you?" he asked.

Adam scratched above his ear. "Well…I…I guess you…"

Legsy just raised an eyebrow at him, waiting.

Adam deflated. "I guess because they…show it. They do stuff for you."

"Fuckin' right! And ANY woman, complicated or not, needs to KNOW that you love
her. Needs to have it SHOWN. Because blokes, y'know, we're stupid buggers, we
feel it and we'll just go ahead and fuckin' _assume_ that they feel the same
way, and carry on. Women, though? They think about love, a lot. They…a lot of
the time, they love you so much they worry that they're loving you more than
you love them. See? They don't just assume it."

"Ava's not insecure, though."

"It's not insecure, mate. It's…" Legsy's gaze flickered about the room and he
spread his hands, marshalling his words. "They don't want to get ripped off.
Right? That's actually _smarter_ than how we do."

"They want to know they're getting a good return on their emotional
investment." Adam translated.

"Right! You got it!"

Adam sighed. "Yeah…I got it."

"…so?"

Adam frowned. "…So…what?"

Legsy looked down and rubbed his forehead. "How fuckin' dense ARE you?" he
asked. "I've just told you that what she wants is to be SHOWN that you love
her."

"But she broke it off!" Adam exclaimed. "And…she's right, we hardly know each
other any more! It's not going to be as simple as…as flowers and chocolate!"

"So _start. Over._" Legsy suggested. "Get to know her again, let her get to
know you again. Go on a new first date! If that relationship's over, then
start a new one with her!"

"…You think we can do that?"

"Adam, pal…I reckon that's what she wants more than anything." Legsy told him,
gravely.

He let Adam sit and think, until the younger man finally nodded. "I'll…give it
a few days. I need to work up my courage and…figure out what I'm gonna say."

"Good idea. But if we get to Saturday and you've still not done it, I'm
draggin' you down there myself. Fair?"

"Fair".

Legsy stood up. "I'll let you get on and think, then." he said.

"…Thanks, Legsy."

Legsy just clapped a hand on his shoulder and left him alone.

"Ava!" Jess' expression fell on seeing her former student's downcast
expression and smudged makeup. "Oh…honey, what's wrong? Or is this one for
Gabe?"

"This is…" Ava sighed, entering their apartment. "I don't know" she said,
simply, and shrugged. "Adam proposed."

"He did?" Gabe asked, emerging from the kitchen.

"Yeah. Didn't he tell you?"

"_Madre de Dios, mi hijo es un idiota a veces_…"Gabe sighed. "No, he…Are you
okay?"

"Just…drained." Ava sat down at the table. "I tried to leave the door open,
but…I don't think he really knows why I said no, or if he got that I really do
WANT to marry him, I just…"

Her hair bunched up as she planted her elbows on the table and raked her
fingers across her scalp, then threw her hands down on the table. "Five years,
you know?"

"Sounds like you both need some advice." Gabe noted.

"What's to advise? We need to start over. But if it's going to work, he needs
to…God, this sounds so selfish, but he needs to focus on _me_ a bit, right? Is
that selfish?"

"No, that's a marriage." Jess replied.

"It feels selfish. I just…you know, I…I…"

"What?"

"…Can you promise me that this will never, _ever_ get back to him? _Ever_?"

Jess and Gabe exchanged glances, but nodded.

"I, uh…" Ava took a cleansing breath and looked up at them. "I cheated on
him."

Gabe sat down, expression unreadable and creating a vacuum that she just had
to fill.

"I…God." Ava sat back and looked around the kitchen as she gathered her
thoughts. "That sounds terrible…"

She wiped her eyes. "…I came _this_ close to breaking up with him" she said,
finally. "The only reason I didn't is because this…friend…of mine, he helped
me stay on top of it. He helped me feel…"

She cleared her throat, leaned forward and made eye contact again. "The one
thing Adam told me time and again is that I'm what kept him going when things
got tough. Right? But he wasn't keeping _me_ going, you know? All of that
energy, all of that love, it was only going one way, and I guess I just…I ran
out. And, and I needed somebody else to send some of that energy to me for a
while. That's half of it."

An uncomfortable half-minute ticked out on the wall clock, during which Jess
surreptitiously blew her nose.

"And the other half?" Gabriel prompted.

Ava spoke to her own hands rather than look at him. "He's a special operator
now, you know? I have to get used to the idea that…that maybe one day he'll go
on a mission and only a flag will come back. That's how it has to be, you
know? And…What happens then? If I'm- if my feelings are so tied up to him, and
that ever happened…I mean, if I'm not _me_ first, if I'm all about _him_ and
he dies, then what does that leave me with?"

Behind Gabe's back, Jess nodded. Gabe himself was just still, and a little old
and damaged and attentive, leaving an intolerable void where his part of the
conversation should have been.

"This…this is all coming out wrong. I'm making it sound like I, or…Dad, I'm
sorry."

Gabe just reached over the table and took her hand. "Don't." he said, gently.
"Do you regret it?"

"No."

The answer seemed to be the opposite of what Gabriel had wanted and expected
to hear. "…You don't?"

"I…learned a lot. About how to let go and, and…and how to…" she took a breath
and started over. "I _love_ Adam. Come on, how many guys are there in the
world who'd go through what he has all so he can throw himself in harm's way
to protect other people? He's my hero! And…If there's such a thing as a
soulmate, he's mine, I know it. But I had to learn that I can't afford to love
him that much if I couldn't live without him. Does that make sense?"

Gabe's ability to just _listen_ kept pulling her forward. "And…now I know I
_could_. And knowing that I could keep going even if he died tomorrow…it kind
of frees me to be able to love him as much as I want to. Please, does…does
that make sense?"

Gabe finally looked down, and squeezed her hand gently. "I…guess it does." he
said, finally. "I don't like to think about him getting…" He trailed off,
unable to finish the sentence.

"I never thought about…mama and papa, or my school friends, or whatever." Ava
replied. "I didn't like to think about death at all. But you _have_ to, Dad.
You _have_ to think about death. They died, when I accidentally poisoned
myself that one time I thought _I_ was gonna die, I saw _you_ nearly die when
that guy shot you…Sara…and now Adam's a soldier."

Jess shut her eyes and looked away, but Ava surged on. "You've _got_ to think
about it, and you've _got_ to have a plan, because there's no _if_ involved.
There's just…there's _when_. Isn't there? And I had to know I was strong
enough to keep going without him. I had to know…I had to know he wasn't
everything. I don't think I'd _dare_ to love him if he was everything."

There was an eternity where the only sound was the buzz of the lighting and
fridge-freezer, before Gabe finally deflated. "…_Entiendo_." he murmured.

"I'm sorry, Dad."

"I thought you said you don't regret it?" Gabe asked.

Ava stumbled. "Well…no, I don't." She agreed.

"Then don't apologise. It's not…" He sighed, then looked back at Jess, who
gave him a weak smile and took his hand over his shoulder. "It's not something
I'd have done, and I don't know if I think it's ever justified, but…we trust
you, Ava. If you think you needed to do it…I wasn't there, I can't judge."

Ava produced a weak smile of her own. "Thank you." her voice was full of
relief and true gratitude.

"You need to work on your communication, though." Gabe continued. "There's no
way he'll figure it out himself. You should have spelled out the problem,
rather than just turning him down."

Jess nodded. "Adam's a remarkable man." she said, addressing Ava. "But…you're
the only girlfriend he's ever had. He won't know how to figure out what you're
feeling, nor how to cope."

"I can't tell him what I did, it'd _totally_ break him!" Ava protested.

"Jess is right, though." Gabe told her. "Even if he never learns……what you
did…he still needs to be told that it's got to be a real relationship, not
just two survivors putting each other on a pedestal and not really having a
whole lot in common."

Ava relaxed. "I knew you'd think of how to phrase it." she said.

"Well, you'll probably think of something better if you give it time to
think." Jess replied. "But…just make sure you tell him sooner rather than
later, okay? He's going to need to be _told_ that you want to start over."

"And tell him to come talk to us!" Gabe added.

"I can do that." Ava promised. "I'll talk to him, when I know what to say."

"Probably sensible." Jess agreed. "Like you said--you never know what's going
to happen."

