# Chapter 23: "Back Down To Earth" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 10y2m2w AV**  
**HMS Caledonia, Deep Space**

**_Adam Ares_**

"Okay… Murray?"

"He's a fucking ninja, but he never watches his surroundings properly; too
focused on the goal. Claymore, tripwire, something like that. Force him back
into it with a couple of Aggressors, or maybe lure him into it by being a
tempting target."

"Makes sense… What about you, Vandenberg?"

"Me? I wouldn't last two seconds in CQB against an Aggressor. And hey, that
way they could maybe live-capture me, get the implants out again."

"Just what the hell are you boys talking about?"

The five of them turned. "Hey Kovač." Adam smiled at her. The diminutive
blonde NCO in charge of biomechanics and EVA system life support gave him a
friendly wave, though her attention was on her tablet.

"pH balance check and last QA, guys." she announced. "Show me your butts."

They dutifully turned around with an assortment of chuckles, presenting the
life-support packs that rode low on their back and pelvis for her to assess
with her tools. "So what were you guys talking about?"

"Uh, what we'd do if one of us was biodroned." Firth told her.

She shuddered. "_Yuurgh._ Just the _thought_ of that…!"

"I know, right?" Baseball agreed. "Fuckin' shoot me, if it ever happens to
me."

This sparked universal agreement. "So you're basically having a '_who would
win in a fight?_' conversation." Kovač noted. "Very macho. You're good,
Firth."

"Yeah, but this way it's practical an' shit." Sikes noted.

"Well, don't let me stop you…" she assured them, after a few seconds of
silence. "You're good, Burgess."

"Okay…" Vandenberg thought for a second. "Blaczynski?"

"He's too cautious for an ambush. Just gotta put the pressure on, I guess.
Suppress him and work round the side." Firth noted.

"Okay… Warhorse then."

Kovač giggled. "Sniper round. From long range." she suggested. "You're good,
Rebar."

Everyone nodded, muttering variations on the theme of "Oh yeah."

"Hey!" Adam objected.

"No, she's right dude. No way I'm confronting _your_ ass up close."

"Yeah, but, dude-"

"From _extreme_ long range." Vandenberg added.

"Come _on_, I'm not an aggressor!"

"Take it for the compliment it is and move on, brother." Baseball suggested.

"Gee, thanks…" Adam rolled his eyes.

"Shame to ruin that face, though." Kovač teased. "You're good, Ares."

"Same goes for you, Base." Vandenberg said. "Get some JETS guy to do it from a
thousand yards."

"Damn straight!" Burgess agreed, and exchanged a fist bump with him.

"…What about the Major?" Firth asked.

"Major Powell?" Adam asked, still trying to ignore the comment about his face.
Kovač had a knack for making his ears go red, though right now they were
mercifully hidden under the collar and neck sheath of his EV-MASS.

"What other fuckin' Major am I gonna be talkin' about, dumbass?"

"…right. Yeah."

"You're good, Sikes."

"Airstrike." Sikes said.

"What?" Adam asked

"Airstrike." Sikes repeated.

"Dude, come on, yeah he's a fuckin' badass but he's not THAT-"

"Nah bro." Baseball interrupted. "It's not about him being too scary, though
he fuckin' _is_. It's about giving him a proper sendoff."

"…you're right." Adam agreed. "He'd deserve nothing less."

"Nuke the site from orbit." Firth nodded.

"It's the only way to be sure." Kovač finished for him. "Helmets and masks on,
boys."

They scooped the helmets up and put them on, pushing them down firmly until
they engaged with the rigid component of the seal at the back of the skull
with a sharp _clack!_ The mask locked into place along the jawbone and mated
with the suit's air supply and to the helmet with similar mechanical solidity.
The flexible rubber seal that did the rest of the work of keeping their faces
protected from vacuum slid together easily and automatically.

Kovač tugged the roll of duct tape she'd been wearing as a bracelet off her
wrist. "Seal check!" she announced.

This was a simple ritual - each man carefully examined the seal of the man
beside him and announced it was good with a ringing slap to the helmet. Kovač
then double-checked for him and then applied some tape over the seal for good
measure. It probably wouldn't actually _do_ anything, but everyone felt better
for it.

"HUD check."

"Good."

"Good."

"Good."

"Good."

"Good."

"All good!" she tapped at the large button on her tablet. "KMP check."

The spacewalkers stood and jolted in place a bit as they used the controls on
their wrists to test their Kinetic Maneuvering Packs, and another round of
"Good" was called.

"And… equipment."

Adam helped the guys shrug on their equipment packages and make sure their
loads were properly strapped on and distributed. That was his job
specifically, backed up by Baseball, and he did it _right_. He took pride in
that.

"Good." he declared.

"That's our checklist, you're green-lit." Kovač stepped back. "Over to you,
Vandenberg."

"Thanks, Kovač." She nodded and joined the rest of the techs in heading for
the airlock. Rebar, being the senior NCO, was in charge of the EVA they were
doing.

"Righteous?" he prompted.

Firth nodded, and touched the side of his helmet. "CIC, RIGHTEOUS, we're
green-lit for EVA."

The reply came back in a few seconds. "_RIGHTEOUS, Caledonia CIC, we have you
ready. Condition Amber._"

"Condition Amber!" Firth called. "Clear the deck!"

One of the techs by the airlock echoed the call - "Clear the deck!" and they
filed out. Once it had cycled and the light above it indicated full seal,
Firth nodded to the guys, they exchanged fist-bumps, and he touched his helmet
again. "CIC, RIGHTEOUS, go for doors. I say again, we're go for doors."

The acknowledgement was lost as a siren hooted five times - giving plenty of
warning to anyone who might need to dash to hit the emergency button - and
then the gravity went away. So did the air, brushed to the corners of the room
and held in place by a forcefield that swept the deck empty. They all glanced
at one another, checking for any signs of distress. Everyone's suit was
working fine, and they watched the huge flight deck doors push outwards and
then split into two halves, which both swung aside.

Naked stars yawned at Adam from incomprehensibly far away, somehow made to
feel close and dangerous by the fact that literally nothing separated him from
them save distance and his EV-MASS. All he could hear was the faint muffled
sound of his own heart, his own digestion, and the rush of air into and out of
his mask past his ears.

"_CIC, RIGHTEOUS. Commencing spacewalk._"

"_Righteous, Caledonia CIC: have fun._"

"_Man, we have_ **_got_** _to get some sound or music or something in this
shit._" Baseball commented. "_Vacuum's too quiet._"

"_I hear ya… There's our box._" Firth agreed. Adam's HUD filled with a flight
waypoint and instructions on how much thrust to give himself, which he
followed to the letter. Firth knew best when it came to EVA navigation.

_Caledonia_ threw a spotlight on their target as they got close to it - a
round vehicle, the proportionate shape of a hockey puck but twenty feet across
and bright blue, covered in alien labels and script. One standard type three
Dominion life raft. Without the light, both it and the bulk of their
mothership would have been damn near invisible. The human eye had never really
been designed for the lighting conditions in interstellar space, some light
years from the nearest star. In fact, aside from the spotlight and the
blinking beacon atop the liferaft, the nearest and brightest point of light
was the gravity spike that _Caledonia_ had deployed to catch the tiny craft so
that it could be brought aboard.

They swung into place. As Firth set up shop notionally "above" the life raft
to keep an eye on its velocity relative to _Caledonia_, Adam went with Sikes
and Burgess joined Vandenberg in approaching antipodal spots on the rim of the
little craft, where the two Defenders set to work welding larger versions of
their suits' KMPs to it while the Protectors held them in place.

It didn't take long before Rebar reported "_Done_." prompting a quiet cuss
from Sikes.

"_Done. I owe you fifty._"

"_Damn right you do. Righteous, over to you._"

The five of them settled on the life raft and held on as Firth took over
piloting it into _Caledonia_'s waiting flight deck.

As they crossed the threshold, Firth made a satisfied noise over the comms.
"_Okay, Caledonia CIC, RIGHTEOUS, we're in the bay, close the doors. WARHORSE,
you may as well wake 'em up."_

Adam gave him a clear thumbs up and used the computer on the inside of his
wrist to connect to the life raft's comms, a process which automatically shut
down the stasis field within.

"Hello in there." he announced. "You're being rescued by the United States Air
Force."

They'd gone over that one a few times, how to begin that introduction. In the
end, they'd decided that any humans in such a life raft would probably have
been in there for long enough to not know who the SOR was, and aliens wouldn't
know the difference anyway. And, seeing as Adam himself was still after all a
pararescueman…

"Before we pop the hatch," he continued "we just want to warn you guys that
we're humans from Earth, so if there's any special precautions you need us to
take to protect you from harm, you let us know."

A male voice answered in definite untranslated English as the doors finished
closing behind them, though there was a rough edge to it, like he had a throat
infection or something. "_No need, pal. We're American_."

Adam grinned inside his mask when he heard a feminine exclamation of
disapproval in the background, and the male voice clarified. "_Alright, two
Americans and one Canadian._"

"Three humans?" he broadcast an all channels, and the guys all held up a fist
in celebration. "Jackpot! Y'all okay in there?"

"_Three cases of recent vacuum exposure. We_ **_really_** _need a doctor,
fella._"

Adam waved at Baseball, who gave him a thumbs up. "Copy that. Sit tight folks,
we'll have you out of there in a minute."

He switched his broadcast channel. "Caledonia medical, WARHORSE, do you copy?"

"_WARHORSE, Caledonia medical, loud and clear._"

"Life raft contains three human wounded, zero Echo-Tangoes. Three cases of
recent vacuum decompression, probable pulmonary edema, ebullism and DCS,
possible pleural effusion. BASEBALL and I will triage, ventilation on standby
please."

"_Wilco WARHORSE._"

"_SOR, stand by for lunar gravity…_" Adam swung himself out from the liferaft
to arm's length, and together they fell gently onto the deck at one-sixth of a
G. Pressure returned with a _thump_, and as soon as the raft was down on the
deck and safe, the gravity ramped up to one G.

Two lights over the main flight deck doors turned green. "Two on the board."
Firth announced, no longer needing the radio. "REBAR, we're good to break
seal."

"Clear to break seals." Vandenberg acknowledged. "Get 'em off, guys."

Adam got his helmet off as fast as he could, and hit the door release even as
the first of _Caledonia_'s medical staff came squeezing through the airlock
onto the flight deck with trolleys and life support equipment.

The occupants were in a bad way. The fit-looking tanned dude in the back had
badly bloodshot eyes but seemed to be breathing fine. The whipcord athletic
blonde woman to his right was coughing pink froth, but most worrying of all
was the young asian woman in the front. She was barely moving, and he could
see clear signs of shock.

"Shit, you guys weren't kidding about the medical attention." he said, and
hauled himself in with them.

"You should see the other guy." the blonde told him.

"Hah! _Bueno._" He turned back out the door, using the excuse of talking to
the people outside to cover prepping a dose of anaesthetic - the Chinese girl
was going to need to go on life support immediately, and for that she needed
to be asleep.

Not for the first time, he _wished_ that they were authorised to use Crue-D
for first aid. "Base, get the blonde patient, she looks oedemic." he
instructed. "Rebar, I'ma need that board there." Vandenberg nodded and stepped
smartly to retrieving it, so he returned his attention to the Chinese girl.

"Hey, can you try and grip my hand for me?" he asked her. Though she was able
to raise her hand and _sort_ of grip, there was nothing there in terms of
strength, but she was so focused on the task it was simplicity itself to give
her the shot with his other hand. She didn't seem to notice.

"Okay, that's fine." He accepted the board from Vandenberg. "I'm just gonna
get this board under you and we'll get you taken care of, alright?"

She nodded weakly as he manoeuvred her gently onto it and he realised she
hadn't actually spoke yet. "What's your name?"

"Uh…" she frowned. Apparently the anaesthetic was kicking in. "I'm… Xiu. Xiu
Chang."

Adam didn't allow his surprise to show. Of all the people he could have pulled
out of a life raft, he'd found Regaari's friend? Besides, her breathing was
_definitely_ too labored for comfort. There was fluid on her lungs, and that
needed to be gone sooner rather than later. Surprising coincidences could be
handled later.

"Nice to meet you, Xiu." he told her, as he lifted her easily down from the
life raft and onto the waiting trolley.

"A-a-and you?" She was definitely falling asleep now. "Uh… what's your name?"

He took her hand, comfortingly. "I'm Adam. Staff sergeant Adam Ares, USAF
Pararescue." he replied.

He was pretty sure she was asleep by the end of the sentence.

"Right… let's get that chest drain in." he told the medics.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**The Arabian Sea, Earth.**

**_Biodrone_**

It would have been easy to lose track of the MV _Nasarpur_ without care and
attention to detail. The ship was not large, and its running lights were just
one of many visible across the open leagues of calm sea. Perfect sailing
weather.

If there was one thing a biodrone was extremely good at, however, it was
sustained attention to detail. The human it had once been could never have
summoned the willpower or focus to stare at one target for hours on end,
blinking only when biology demanded it. He would have shivered, or grown bored
or sought conversation. He would have stretched his legs, or relieved the
insistent pressure in his bladder.

Insofar as biodrones could be said to have desires of their own, it _might_
have wished to receive an order to stretch its legs, or urinate. No such order
was forthcoming, and until a Controller deigned to pay it any attention, no
such order would _be_ forthcoming. All that it had, therefore, was the data
provided to it by the ghost of a personality, lacking anything functionally
resembling willpower or agency. That ghost was interrogated often, when the
biodrone was required to blend in. Had it been striving to blend in, the
biodrone would have used that information to justify stretching its legs and
urinating.

But it had received no order to blend in. And so it did not.

The order it _had_ received was to watch the ship they were approaching. And
so it did. No provision had been made for it to hand off this duty to another
biodrone so that it could stretch its legs or urinate, and so it did not.

The Controllers had not left it with the autonomy to make these decisions for
itself, and this was wise of them: If they had, the ghost of its personality
would have responded to what had happened to him in the only sane way: it
would have screamed, and screamed, and _screamed._

The MV _Nasarpur_ was mercifully close. Soon, a Controller would make contact
and issue an order to prepare for combat.

Insofar as the biodrone was capable of looking forward to something, it was
looking forward to that order. Urinating had a clear logical role to play in
battle preparations. Relief was only one legitimately interpreted order away,
and that order was imminent.

Until then, it watched the MV _Nasarpur_.

There were ten of them, biodrone bodies collected from around the geopolitical
region collectively known as "Middle East". The concept of being in the middle
of the direction of prograde was nonsense, but the biodrone was not granted
the autonomy to ponder that absurdity.

Many more biodrones had been assembled from all across this irrationally named
region, but the ten in this boat were all, for lack of a term that more
accurately and satisfactorily encompassed them, soldiers. Fighters, perhaps -
men whose lives had left them proficient in the use of weaponry, though each
for very different reasons. One or two were soldiers indeed, the volunteer
agents of a legitimate state's legal monopoly on controlled violence. Others
had first raised a gun to protect themselves and their families, and never
found an opportunity to put it back down. The rest had taken up arms for
religious reasons that the drone's programming simply was not equipped to
understand, even if it had been granted leave to try.

The order came and the biodrone rushed to obey over the side of the boat,
which took a good minute or two. Parameters flooded in as it did so - data
about the layout of the target ship, how many men were on board, their
armament and training, their exact locations, the location of the cargo they
were protecting.

The drones conferred, bypassing crude language to form a network which
evaluated the unique skills each one had inherited from the human it had once
been and liaised this information back to a central Controller, which ran a
rapid-fire of thousands of different simulations based on their suggestions,
keeping the most successful, permutating upon them, combining them, throwing
raw processing power at them until it had arrived at the most effective
approach which carried a maximal probability of satisfying all mission
objectives.

That approach hinged upon two simple truths. The first was that their vehicle
was invisible to the radar of the ships trailing MV _Nasarpur_ at a discreet
distance, and produced almost no audible noise - certainly not any that would
be heard over MV _Nasarpur_'s own engines.

The second was that biodrones were expendable.

Everything was timed down to the second. Their boat pulled up alongside the
_Nasarpur_, and three of the biodrones boarded her, using grapples, rope
ascenders and a muscular boost from their fellows to scale the merchant
vessel's curving flank. Three more were delivered a little further forward,
and the last four boarded the ship at its nose.

Or tried to. One of the biodrones turned out to have had a higher estimation
of its abilities in life than was actually warranted, and plunged into the
water, never to resurface. None of the others paid any attention beyond
adjusting their plan of attack to account for the loss.

The drone that had needed to urinate was among the three that reached the deck
at the prow. Theirs was simultaneously the most important part of the raid,
and also the easiest - they were tasked with disrupting the ship's ability to
call for help. This had to be done first, and it had to be done silently.

It involved ghosting up three flights of stairs to a mid-level door on the
ship's forward tower. An unfortunate crewman was stabbed before he had even
finished turning to see who was opening it.

As for the radio equipment, there were three men in that room, none of whom
were alert for danger, all of whom were bored and undisciplined. Military they
may have been, and trusted, but all of their careful preparations had simply
never accounted for alien activity.

The third of them was dead only a second after the first, just enough time for
the biodrone that entered the room first to switch aim, backed up by its
fellows. The gunfire would draw attention, but instructions from the
Controller, followed instantly and perfectly, meant that any attempts to radio
for a report or to call for distress would meet with failure. The radio wasn't
turned off, it was simply turned _wrong_.

The three biodrone teams went mobile. Confused sentries on the deck gasped
their last still wondering what was going on even as 7.62mm rounds ripped
through them. Panicked shouting from below deck heralded the arrival of the
garrison protecting the ship's cargo, whose haste to fight back led them to
blunder straight into grenade tripwire traps and ambushes.

As the Controller had planned, two of the biodrones were killed, sacrificed in
distracting the defensive force long enough for their fellows to outflank and
enfilade the enemy.

Another was sacrificed storming into the last knot of defenders with a brick
of high explosives on a five second countdown in its arms. The few who
survived its detonation were executed before they could recover their wits.

That left six biodrones, two of which were wounded. Those two were tasked with
throwing their fallen counterparts overboard. The healthy four went to work
with hoists, winches and trolleys, getting the loot they had come to steal up
on deck.

With no human left on board who had even the mental capacity to shoot at it,
the spaceship that had been trailing MV _Nasarpur_ for hours dropped its cloak
and lifted the cargo off the deck and into its hold. It remained visible for
only five seconds.

The biodrones had one last task.

If it had been able to, the biodrone might have wished not to take this next
step. But the Controller had given clear instructions. Obedience was
inevitable. Within it, what might have been the last shred of a human being
reflected that at least he would soon be released. Words that meant nothing to
the Biodrone's guiding programming drifted through its head like a passing
thought, consigning the soul of its body's former owner to Allah.

Together, the biodrones vaulted the rail and sank. The rings of white water
they made when they hit were barely worthy of comment next to the disruption
caused by the merchant vessel's own wake.

Twenty minutes later, when a helicopter full of marines from PNS _Zulfiquar_
arrived in response to a failure to make routine contact, they found only the
corpses of their comrades and a worrying absence of the ship's cargo.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**.

"Hey Dexter. Man, you are not going to _believe_ who we just pulled off a life
raft on the edge of Elder Space. Although, maybe you can guess, because you
wouldn't be interested otherwise, huh? Anyway, we found your friend Xiu!"

"You tellin' Dexter?" Sikes stuck his head into the tablet's camera field of
view. "Hey Dexter!"

This prompted Baseball, Firth and Rebar to join in too, and Adam just grinned
at the camera as they expressed a series of happy greetings to their Gaoian
friend-slash-mascot, before he finally shooed them away.

"Yeah, you've gotta visit us sometime man. We can do, like, a joint training
thing or something. Maybe see what you've got to teach us, like that fucking
pulse-gun trick you pulled, that shit was _insane_!" He cleared his throat.
"Anyway… yeah, we found your friend. Looks like she's been stuck in that pod
for about five years, and they had a _rough_ time of it, but she's alive. By
the time you've got this they'll probably have taken her back to Earth, but
don't worry, I'm sure we'll be able to sort out putting you two back in touch
again…"

"Uh… Yeah, give my regards to this Ayma of yours. Guess she'll want to know
too. And… yeah that's about it. I'll see you around, southpaw. Peace!"

He stopped the recording, and sent it without bothering to play it back.
Regaari had been in touch a couple of times since Capitol Station, and Adam
knew that he'd be delighted by the news.

"All done?" Baseball asked. Adam just grinned at him. He'd saved lives, had
some good training that morning, been able to send some really good news to a
friend…

"Good day." he commented.

"Yeah…"

Baseball had been doing that a bit for a while now. Something was bugging him,
Adam could tell, but if Base didn't want to share, that was his business. He
wasn't about to push it. "You got anything planned?" He asked instead.

Baseball shrugged. "Goin' drinking with Titan. Dude's not been laid since he
got shot. You?"

Adam exchanged elaborate handshakes and backslaps with the other three as they
left. "Ava's friend Sean's coming up from Earth. Apparently his uncle's like
this journalist or something, doing a bit on the Byron group, yeah? We were
gonna go up the lake, go for a swim. Really looking forward to that, they only
just declared it clean this week. I've not been up there since before I
enlisted!"

"Oh…"

"…something bothering you, bro?" Adam asked him.

Baseball stood awkwardly in the middle of the locker room, drumming his hands
nervously on his thighs and licking his lips.

Adam stood up. "Dude… what's wrong?"

Baseball apparently reached a decision. "Brother… you better sit your ass back
down. I've got something you need to know."

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Whitecrest Clan Enclave, city of Wi Kao, Planet Gao.**

**_Regaari_**

Where other officers of the Clan had busy offices full of clutter, keepsakes,
mementoes and memories of jobs well done, Regaari's was characteristically
rather more Spartan. This was largely because he never used it. He was usually
too busy with fieldwork.

Whitecrest was all about security on a big scale, and that meant Intelligence,
information, data, and the correlations and relations between those data. Most
of the most important of that data crunching went on right here in the Clan
Enclave, a subtle edifice of geometric shapes clad in Takwood and greenish
glass, separated from the bustle of the city of Wi Kao by a low stone wall, a
decorative moat, and some well groomed parkland.

It was a fittingly prestigious and understated home for a prestigious and
understated Clan, and its sprawling warrenous basements were full of officers
doing vital though unglamorous work.

Regaari, as a political officer, should not have been among them. The location
of his office was a relic of the Clan's disfavour, though that had softened
over the years as the Fathers responsible had retired and as Regaari's own
influence had grown. His friendship with Giymuy had done wonders for the
Whitecrest breeding program, and the fact that he was now forging bonds with a
Human military unit…

Several of the Fathers were worried, he suspected. A younger male with that
kind of influence - and _certainly_ one with as many cubs as Regaari had now
sired - was a threat to the established order.

His immediate future was doubtless going to involve either attempted
assimilation into the Clan leadership or - vastly more likely - relegation to
yet another satellite position with all the _appearance_ of prestige.

Right now, though, politics ruled the day. That was Regaari's job, and Regaari
was _good_ at his job. Indeed, he'd become even better at it ever since
discovering just how modifiable his new cybernetic hand was. Had he worn
sleeves, he would literally have had some tricks up them, first and foremost
of which were the petabytes of storage space and the holographic projector in
his palm. His workstation was literally attached to him, available at an
instant's notice.

"Yulna's going to win." he declared.

Father Terrik - the elderly officer ostensibly responsible for supervising
Regaari's work, scratched at his ear with an air of scepticism. "I had thought
that her attachment to the human female… just like Giymuy…?" he suggested.

"-Is much less of an issue than Mother Suri and her supporters like to
believe." Regaari informed him. "I had Brother Ruuvi conduct a meta-analysis
of the datasphere commentary. Most of the females just don't care, and of
those who do the majority are broadly positive."

Terrik inclined his head. "Positive?"

"For reasons ranging from the pragmatic to the compassionate." Regaari
elaborated. He activated the gesture-based command in his new paw that caused
it to project the files in an almost physical format above his palm. With his
remaining natural paw, he could select, move and even throw the files around -
copying them to another device was as simple as throwing them towards said
device. This he now did.

"That's my full report." he explained, as Terrik studied and accepted the
incoming file. "It details my findings, my reasoning and my supporting
evidence. Much as I like and respect Yulna, I've made every effort to remain
neutral and unbiased in my assessment, and I am still convinced that Mother
Suri has a negligible chance of being the next Mother Supreme."

Terrik stood. "I will read it in full and present it to the Fathers." he
promised. "Your recommendation, I take it, is to side with Yulna?"

"The risk to the clan is negligible, and the potential benefits considerable."

Terrik made a thoughtful head-duck to acknowledge Regaari's point, and let
himself out.

Regaari gave it a few minutes and toured his office. He used the time in
tidying up the minimal mess and examining his few keepsakes - a crystal data
wafer full of Xiu's precious collection of Earth entertainment, one of
Giymuy's walking canes that she had bequeathed to him, and a framed picture, a
gift from the SOR, depicting all of them gathered round him and beaming those
big toothy deathworlder smiles. Actual pigment printed on paper - a technology
so obsolete in Gaoian society that it might have been an antique or relic, and
obsolete by human standards too, but this one was glossy, crisp and new.

That was enough procrastination. He headed out, locked up his office, combed a
bit of stray fur back into place as he jogged down the hall, and let himself
into Brother Ruuvi's office.

Ruuvi was an ally, a genuine one. A fellow victim of clan politics whose
career had been similarly holed by voicing honest concern to the wrong Father,
he was even more fervently in favour of reform and a change of leadership than
was Regaari. Unlike Regaari, he'd been "promoted" to leadership of the clan's
digital security and information wing - what the SOR had called "SigInt" \-
and, like Regaari, had taken his new role and excelled at it, adapting to the
demands of the job with the aplomb and rapidity that had made Clan
Whitecrest's reputation.

Regaari didn't bother with a greeting - they'd been planning this particular
sting all week. "Well?"

"He read the summary and then forwarded the file to Reyu, Redilo and Yemmil."

Regaari sighed in relief, and Ruuvi chittered. The set of his own ears was
relieved, though: Terrik had been the subject of an unresolved question,
whether he was working with the little cyst of Fathers who held the reins of
power in Whitecrest and were getting progressively cosier and cosier with the
monolithic nepotism of the Dominion, or whether he was doing the right thing
no matter what that right thing might be.

Forwarding the file to three Fathers who had, in Regaari's estimation,
successfully balanced authority with conscientiousness was strong evidence for
the latter.

"Excellent." He growled. "I think we-"

He was interrupted by his communicator, which cheeped at him in a one beep,
two beep, three beep rhythm until he checked it.

"Ah!"

Ruuvi noticed his colleague's ears prick up. "Good news?"

"A message from Warhorse."

"You have a human on your priority message list?" Ruuvi asked.

"I have three humans on my priority message list." Regaari retorted, and
opened the message.

Thirty seconds later, his hindclaws slid and scrabbled on the smooth concrete
flooring as he bolted out of the room.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Demeter Road, Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Sean Harvey_**

"Do you think he's going to ask you again?"

"Not any time soon… we're still putting it back together, you know?"

Ava was nursing a coffee on the couch opposite the recliner Sean had claimed
for himself. It was still hard to see her looking so relaxed and at peace in a
relationship with Adam, but that wound was healing for Sean. It was clear that
the two of them doted on one another, which definitely helped. If the last
month or so had continued to be the same old story of neglect and frustration
then he'd have suggested calling it off, and guessed that Ava would have
finally seen the light.

But… she'd been vindicated. Once Adam had finally seen the need to actually
_connect_ with his girlfriend then by her own admission he'd been perfect,
devoting every second they could spend together to _them_. He took her on
dates, they enjoyed the young woods around Folctha together, she was in the
best shape of her life thanks to his one-on-one attention… it sounded idyllic.

"I thought things were going well?" Sean asked her.

"It is!" she agreed. "It's just… you don't put a relationship back together
overnight. Even with the nice apartment and all the time we're spending
together, you know…"

"Right. All that time apart, all the changes." Sean agreed.

"He's not changed as much as I was afraid he would." she conceded, setting her
coffee down. "Sure, he's big as a bus nowadays and he's got all these skills
and training but… he's still got that goofy laugh, those stupid dorky jokes.
Whenever he's being romantic, it's like he's been planning it for three
weeks…" She sighed, toying with a stray curl of hair. "I've probably changed
more, deep down."

"How so?"

"Just… things, you know? My way of looking at things." she shrugged. "I don't
know. I just… I think…"

Whatever she was trying to think aloud went un-thought at the distant sound of
a door slamming and a rapid rhythmic thudding sound that grew stronger by the
second. Ava grinned and stood up as what were unmistakably the footfalls of an
extremely heavy man came thumping up the last flight of steps. "He's home
early! That's great, that means it must have gone-"

Adam didn't bother with his key. The doorframe and lock both disintegrated as
he just swatted the door so hard that even one of the hinges broke, leaving it
hanging drunkenly from the top corner. His expression wouldn't have looked out
of place on an angry war deity, and Ava actually shrieked a little and took a
shocked couple of steps back.

Sean's own reaction was no less violently startled - he flinched away from the
broken door and wound up having to scramble to his feet to avoid tipping over
the chair arm and onto the floor.

Ava had retreated even further across the room as Adam bore down on her, until
her back was against the wall and she was penned in against it by the palm
he'd smacked down right next to her head. She was wearing any expression that
was the very picture of equal parts bewilderment and fright. From where he was
standing, Sean couldn't see Adam's face, but he could see the rage simmering
in every line of those titanic muscles.

For a deadly few seconds, the only sound was the creak of the last tortured
hinge swaying back and forth, as Ava's face went from intimidated shock, to
dawning horror.

"Shit." she squeaked. "You know."

For all the fury of his entrance, Adam's voice was dangerously quiet and
level. "You _were_ stupid enough to talk to Baseball." he pointed out.

However Ava wanted to respond, it didn't come out except as a silent mouthing
of the start of a word, and some desperate looking around, blinking rapidly as
she tried to think of what to say. She cowered and gave an involuntary
terrified gasp when Adam bunched a fist and drove it into the wall so hard
that the plaster caved in.

"Where do I start?" He growled. "All this time? And who- was it _this_ skinny
shit here?"

He rounded on Sean who backed away, raising his hands as if they'd do any good
at warding off somebody who out-massed him a couple of times over.

Adam took three smart steps forward and immediately had Sean by the front of
his shirt, yanking him around so hard that he heard the seams fray.
"**_YOU?!_** _You wanna own up to this? Did you-?_"

There was no refuge save for honesty. Sean did the best job he could of
straightening and looking Adam in the eye, swallowed, and nodded. He knew
neither if his head was about to go the same way as the wall and the door, nor
what he might do to stop it if it was.

Rather than knocking his block off, Adam just made a disgusted noise and gave
him a contemptuously gentle shove, landing Sean on his backside a few feet
away. He turned and stalked back to Ava, who'd moved out of the corner he'd
trapped her in and was watching him wide-eyed, hunched over and trembling,
with her hands hugging her upper arms.

"You know what Baseball said you said?" He demanded. "He said you said you
don't owe me a fucking apology. What the _fuck_?!"

Ava finally found her voice. "Hear me out." she pleaded.

This was not, apparently, what Adam had wanted to hear. "_HEAR YOU OUT?!_" he
barked, and she backed away two stumbling steps as he took a pace toward her.
"_Hear you out?!_ Sure! Sure I'll fucking hear you out! You've got FIVE
seconds to explain yourself, Ava!"

"I-"

"Four."

"Adam-"

"_Three_."

"**_It was that or break up with you!_**" she blurted, finally finding
something resembling her confidence again. She was still shaking, but there
was an '_I'm-not-going-down-without-a-fight_' edge to it now.

Adam paused in his countdown and just stared at her. For her part, Ava wrung
her hands and stared right back, still trembling like a leaf but clearly
determined to say her piece.

"You're all I have of home_._" she said. "You and Dad-"

"Don't you _dare_ call him that!" Adam snarled.

"…I can't lose you, and I was _going_ to." she forged ahead. "I reached the
end of my- I couldn't do it any more, I was sending so much your way and
getting nothing back and I ran out, and it was… I had to reach out to
somebody."

"And you couldn't fucking _talk_ to me?!" Adam demanded.

"**_I DID!_**" she shot back. "Every time! Every **_fucking_** time, Adam I
_told_ you time after time and when did you listen? You _didn't!_"

"_BULLSHIT!_" Adam exploded. Ava's fire was up and she looked like she was
going to keep arguing, but he took another step forward, she backed into the
kitchen area, and this time the poor refrigerator took the brunt of his rage,
drawing a fearful gasp out of Ava in place of the tirade she'd clearly wanted
to unleash. "I _listened!_" he insisted. "But what did you expect me to do, go
AWOL? Is that what you'd want instead? Me in prison and all that time and pain
wasted?"

"I-"

Adam prodded her in the chest, hard. She gasped and rubbed at the bruised
spot. "I went through _hell_, and the only thing got me through was thinking
you had my back." he growled. "Broken bones, torn muscles, nearly _drowning_,
pain pain pain, day in, day out for _Five. Fucking. Years_. And don't even get
me _started_ on some of the nightmares I've had because of what I've learned!"

He prodded her again. "ALL while having to put up with the _exact same_
loneliness that you couldn't handle! You think all that time away from you was
_easy_ for me? And I've had temptation, oh yeah I have! More than a passing
little devil, do you _know_ how easy it is for guys like me to get laid?"

"Well-"

"**_SHUT UP!!_**" The fridge rocked as it suffered further abuse. "Do you know
how often I gave in? Do you know how often I _thought_ about giving in?"

"Then-"

"**_NOT EVEN FUCKING ONCE!!_**"

In the aftermath of that roar, Sean could have sworn the loudest sound in the
room was his own heartbeat, then Adam's finger curled back from under Ava's
nose and his head dropped. "Not once. Not even once. Not _once_." he mourned.
"Not one single goddamn time, Ava. I did all of this for you. To keep you
safe, to…"

He trailed off.

Ava was weeping openly now. The fear in her body language was gone - for the
first time since Sean had known her, she looked _ashamed_.

"But…" she put a hand on Adam's face and he swatted it aside to glare at her
again. "Adam, all I ever wanted was _you_."

Adam didn't move for a moment. Then he swayed upright, backed off, and gave
her a long, slow, tearful appraisal. "Right." he grunted. "It's all about what
_you_ want."

"Adam-"

"_Fuck you_, Ava. I don't know what happened to you, but I never fell in love
with a selfish backstabbing _whore_."

"_Adam-!_"

He spun, strode to the door, and put the last hinge out of its misery with a
petulant backhand. "Get out of my house." he ordered, and was gone.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Commune of Females, Wi Kao City, Gao**

**_Regaari_**

"You are approaching a commune of females, male. Identify yourself."

Regaari was in no mood for games. The message from Warhorse was far too
important to pass to Ayma digitally - this was a _conversation_, and one that
he was itching to have.

"You can't be serious, Sister Layra, you've seen me every third or fourth day
for a quarter of a year, it's _me!"_ He pointed out, making a bee-line for the
door.

He nearly walked into her ceremonial fusion spear, which was suddenly charged
and spitting hot while aimed levelly at his chest. Behind it, her ears were up
and her eyes bright with dutiful challenge.

"Identify. Yourself." she repeated.

Frustration, outrage and the burning need to deliver his message had badly
eroded Regaari's composure anyway. Having a weapon levelled at him was the
final insult that forced him to do something that, under normal circumstances,
no sane male would have even considered - he _snarled_ at a female.

"Regaari. To deliver a message to Mother Ayma. Now _get out of my way you_
**_witless, parasite-infested, officious plodding four-paw!_**"

Her speartip lowered and her ears rotated backwards out of sheer surprise and,
whether out of genuine intimidation or whether she had finally got her head
around the urgency of his mission, she stood meekly aside after a moment's
consideration.

Regaari swept past her.

Unlike the Whitecrest enclave, the Commune of Females wasn't a single
architecturally planned building but several, built organically over the
centuries as the needs of the females had changed and as available funds and
labour had dictated. Not that the females were ever short on either funds or
labour thanks to the thousands of attention-hungry males who lived in the city
outside their walls.

Still, at some point a senior Mother had declared that the entrance to the
commune needed to be something both imposing and beautiful, and so an
appropriately grand building, far wider than it was tall, had been
constructed. From the outside, its most striking features were its sweeping
white stone stairs and the doors at their top - huge Takwood things with
borders of angular geometric silver filigree that were only ever opened for
important occasions. The actual _entrances_ were the rather more discreet
though similarly decorated frosted-glass sliding doors to either side, one of
which whispered open for him as he approached, and was ignored as he passed
through.

Impressive though it was outside, Regaari had always thought that the inside
of the commune's grand building was by far more beautiful.

The floor was an irregular library of differently coloured slate tiles, left
naturally just a little rough on their upper surface, but still smooth enough
for completely unimpeded movement. Lighting was provided by hidden lamps which
bounced warm yellow light up into the vault of the ceiling. At ankle height in
the wall, hidden projectors sent ripples of a faintly greenish hue playing
over the slate floor tiles, creating a watery effect which neatly complimented
the real flowing water that rose in a fountain behind the Takwood doors before
being sent to run and chatter down twin shallow meandering channels that
reached out into each wing of the building before vanishing into the walls to
emerge outside and feed the ornamental ponds.

Every inch of wall was trellis or bas-relief. Regaari always had to take a
moment to admire the hanging plants, attended by delicate little flying
drones. They had been carefully chosen so that some were always in flower no
matter the season, and right now the grand concourse was kissed with delicate
whites and blues.

Mothers and Sisters were walking and chatting, sitting on the benches,
reading. There was an air of tension that Regaari could smell, and feel in the
fur of the back of his neck. Several of the nearby females glanced at him, saw
a Whitecrest male, and promptly and obviously turned away to keep their
conversation private. He noticed Sister Myun watching him, and the two shared
an affectionate though subtle mutual pricking of ears at one another. She had
been pulled from gate guard duty for the duration of her pregnancy though she
still loitered in the concourse, as much because she loved it there as because
she was (by her own estimation) about the most competent of the commune's
guardian sisters.

Certainly she was the strongest and most highly trained, having spent much of
her adolescence blending the _Gung Fu_ that she had learned from Xiu with
stances and styles more appropriate for a Gaoian, many of which were now part
of Whitecrest's training regime. Regaari had sparred with her during their
courtship, and had never once managed to knock her off her feet - the young
female could float and flow like dawn mist when she wanted to.

Regaari glanced around to quickly check whether Ayma was present, then
concluded that Myun had just as much right to know.

"You know, Sister Layra reported you arriving." she said as he approached,
laying aside her tablet. "I think you impressed her."

"That may not have been wise." Regaari conceded. "But this is important, and
she was in my way."

"What's so important that you'd snap at a commune guard like?" Myun asked. "I
mean, Layra probably wants to mate with you now, but if it had been anybody
else you-"

"The humans found Shoo." Regaari interrupted her, ignoring that nugget of
intel for the time being.

Myun surged to her feet. "Shoo's safe?!"

"They picked her up from an escape pod this morning." Much as he'd have
preferred to keep the original, Regaari had to admit that having a prosthetic
paw with a built in gesture-based control interface for his data was
unbelievably convenient. He summoned Warhorse's message and sent it to Myun's
device, which she snatched up and interrogated eagerly.

She impressed and pleased Regaari by reaching up to the communicator clipped
to her ear and pinching it before he had even thought to ask her. "Security
Central, Mother Ayma has a priority message waiting on the grand concourse.
Call for her please. Priority message for Mother Ayma, grand concourse."

She listened to the response, then growled a little. Her contract with Regaari
had earned Myun some prestige - a fact which spoke volumes of Regaari's own
reputation - but she was still very much the junior on the security forces,
and somebody somewhere was keen to keep her reminded of that fact. Nothing
ever went as swiftly and smoothly as she would have liked. "It's a personal
message, Central, but very important and _private_. Please call for her. Thank
you."

She sighed and unclipped the communicator, muttering a loaned human curse once
it was safely turned off. "_Bitch_."

Regaari chittered quietly. "Anyway, I don't know more than is in the message
there. Though, if Warhorse thinks she had a rough time of it… I'm a little
worried."

"Is there any way to find out more?" Myun asked.

"It's a lot easier to get a message _from_ the SOR than _to_ the SOR…" Regaari
mused. Both of them pricked their ears up as they heard the commune-wide
announcement for Ayma.

"Ayma has Yulna's ear." Myun pointed out, borrowing yet another human phrase.
She did that a lot, peppering her language with deathworlder colloquialisms.
Regaari had almost begun developing the same habit, but had carefully avoided
it - he had the political consequences to think about. Myun on the other hand
seemed to have accepted that her enthusiasm for all things human was equal
parts profitable and isolating. Either that or she was too headstrong to care.

"True, but Yulna is not Mother-Supreme _yet_." Regaari pointed out. "She may
not have as much influence as you think."

"She's going to win, and the humans know it." Myun retorted. She'd been a
stubborn cub, and was now a stubborn and slightly naive adult. The fact that
Regaari agreed with her assessment was unimportant.

"What's that expression? About those birds you shouldn't count?"

"…before they hatch. C_hickens_." Myun finished for him, deflating. "You're
right. But… it's _Shoo._"

They both jumped a little at Ayma's voice. "Shoo? What about Shoo?"

Regaari stood and they exchanged the nose-rub of old friends. "They found her.
She's alive."

Ayma made a squeaking noise of delight and relief and sank onto the bench
beside Myun, ears swivelling like robots in an assembly line as she tried to
settle on a reaction. "Where is she?! Can we see her?"

"I don't know yet." Regaari told her. "I only just got the message. She's back
on Earth. It sounds like she got into more trouble."

Ayma nodded. "That would be Shoo." she agreed, then stood up again. "So we're
going to Earth."

Both Regaari and Myun's ears flattened. "You're… you _can't_ be serious." Myun
squeaked.

"I have waited nearly ten years to finally see her again and… _'kick her ass'_
for running away." Ayma proclaimed. "I am _not_ letting a little thing like a
class twelve deathworld get in my way."

She turned to Regaari. "Besides, didn't you say that the humans wanted to give
you some kind of an award?"

"Well… yes, but nobody ever mentioned actually _going to Earth_." Regaari
replied. "The pollens in the air on that planet would kill us!"

"We can wear breathing masks."

"The gravity-"

"Excursion suits. I've had a long time to think about this, Regaari: _I'm
going_. I would like you to come with me."

"Don't you have a cub to look after?" Regaari asked.

"I also have a Sister who needs my help." Ayma retorted. "Of the two, Shoo
will need me more: the cub is nearly weaned."

"She's Clan, Regaari." Myun pointed out. "What would _you_ do if she was a
Whitecrest?"

Regaari hesitated, then ducked his head slowly. "I'd already be calling for a
shuttle."

The females ducked their own heads, then Myun sighed. "I wish I could come
with you." she said.

"You're pregnant." Ayma pointed out.

"I know, that's why I said _'I wish I could_'." Myun agreed. "But take a
message from me?"

"Of course."

"I'll… take a Whitecrest ship to Cimbrean and arrange things." Regaari said.
"That should take long enough for your cub to be weaned."

"Good." Ayma scratched at her ear, thoughtfully. "I'll… go tell Yulna she
needs to do without me for a while."

"Ayma… she's been in stasis for five human years." Regaari said. "And it was
an escape pod. She may be a bit fragile."

Ayma just chittered.

"When was Shoo ever _not_ fragile?"

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth.**

**_Colonel Ted Bartlett_**

"She's tough."

The family were waiting outside, pacing and chewing their fingernails and
desperate to be let in. Not that it would do them any good. Miss Chang was
sedated, and would remain so for several days. She had been jumped straight to
Scotch Creek from _Caledonia_'s onboard jump array and had been airlifted from
there to Vancouver General, still inside a stasis pod. She had arrived on an
operating table that was perfectly prepared for her and that fact had
undoubtedly saved her life.

The fact that she had even made it that far spoke volumes of her tenacity.

Her doctor was in no mood to entertain military scientists, however. "She
undoubtedly is." She agreed. "But I would very much appreciate knowing why
I've got an Army colonel in my ITU, please."

Ted nodded. "Doctor Spilny, I need to swear you to secrecy on a few things.
This is going to be important to her care, but it's also important for… well."
he handed over a tablet with a non-disclosure agreement on it. The doctor
skimmed it - it wasn't long - and then scrawled her signature and pressed her
thumb to the biometric pad for good measure.

"Miss Chang is one of the few people we know of to survive nervejam trauma."
Ted told her, after he'd countersigned. "Are you familiar with nervejam at
all?"

"I heard it's some kind of alien weapon that can induce fatal seizures…"
Spilny conceded.

"It's… a lot nastier than that." Ted revealed, solemnly. "I'll spare you the
jargon, but it works by creating a field that disrupts some specific types of
quantum activity that's part of the brain's normal function. Or, rather,
forces it to behave a certain-" he trailed off. "The point is that while the
effect may wear off instantly, the damage it does is permanent."

"Her brain is… scarred?"

Ted nodded, grimly. "Intimately. On a cellular chemistry level. Or… most
likely, anyway. The testimony of her friends would suggest as much."

Mr. Etsicitty and Ms. Buehler had weathered the vacuum of space rather better
than Ms. Chang, and were both recovering elsewhere in the building.
Etsicitty's foot was attracting prosthetic and rehabilitation specialists from
all over North America, who were sharing detailed footage and images of it
with their colleagues overseas. By all accounts the interface between flesh
and synthetic material was ingeniously self-sterilising, and might well
revolutionize the field of human prosthetics. Bartlett, as a lifelong
enthusiast for science, was keeping a weather-eye on that development, but it
was outside of his field.

To be frank, so was the case of Ms. Chang, but nobody else was even half as
qualified as Ted was, so….

Doctor Spilny frowned at her patient, deep in thought. "Prognosis?"

"I'm not qualified to give one. Obviously, actually _testing_ the long term
effects of Nervejam would be… unethical."

"Lab rats?"

"You can't… really scale up the behaviour of rats to the behaviour of humans…"
Ted squirmed. "But what we _suspect_ is that any existing psychological
tendencies or predispositions are likely to be exacerbated. The other thing we
noticed was a spike in learning retention and neuroplasticity for some time
after exposure, which then tapered off to below previous levels, leaving the
subjects, uh, strongly influenced by whatever they were doing immediately
after the trauma."

Spilny frowned at her patient again, watching her chest rise and fall with a
click-hiss-wheeze as the ventilator did the work on her behalf.

Ted gave her a minute to think, which he used to produce a copy of the
research paper from his briefcase. "The paper should explain more. We don't
really have any advice on what you can do for her, but any observations you
can make or data you can gather might help us help her and other future
victims."

Spilny nodded, and accepted it. "I'll be sure to do that."

"There's one last thing…"

"Which is?"

Ted produced a handheld implant scanner from his briefcase. It was little more
than a grey cuboid, not dissimilar to the tricorders he'd watched on Star Trek
growing up. "May I just lean in there and perform a scan?"

"It's not invasive, is it?"

"Ultrasound."

Spilny just gestured to the bed invitingly. Ted leaned in past the assorted
tubes, lines and leads, and pressed the scanner gently but firmly against Ms.
Chang's forehead.

Three seconds later, the LED on its back lit up green, and he breathed a sigh
of relief. While the SOR and the medical staff on _Caledonia_ had both already
checked her for alien hardware, Ted's own device was the most recent and
sophisticated model that wouldn't be fooled by nonmetallic implants, as had
happened in the tragic case of Sara Tisdale's murderer.

"Thank you, doctor." He straightened up, pocketing the scanner.

"Thank you, colonel."

Ted let himself out. He didn't make eye contact with the family hovering
outside, just nodded politely, touched his fingers to his brow, and made
himself scarce, wishing he could do more.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_John Burgess_**

It was Good Movie Night. Sometimes, the guys wanted a good movie to
counterbalance all the awful ones they like to watch, and it was a good way to
round off a mission day. The dorm was clean, they were all showered, and now
there were a few hours of quiet time to lounge around in ranger shorts and
watch something.

Hence they were watching '_The Pink Panther_'. The old one, with Peter
Sellers. That had been the plan at least, right up until somebody had asked
where Warhorse had got to and John had tried to explain.

"And you didn't think to tell him sooner?" Titan was asking, plainly angry.

"Man, when did I even have the chance?" The movie was on pause and the usual
comfortable puppy-pile on the couch had broken up into a standing argument.

Sikes opened his mouth to comment, and John nodded in anticipation of what he
was going to say. "Okay, okay, yeah, lots of times, but come _on_ man, timing!
We were all on edge, we were all… then just as I was about to tell him he went
and _proposed_ to her, and then before he had a chance to get over that we had
the mission, and…"

"And you should of told him!" Titan asserted.

"You're supposed to be our fucking brother man, and you're lying to
**_Horse_** of all people about his _girl fucking around_?" Sikes agreed.

Firth weighed in. "You two are like the bromance of this outfit, how the fuck
are you gonna stand by and let Horse get Jodied?"

"He-"

"We're supposed to trust you with our _lives._" Blaczynski added.

That stung. It downright hurt, in fact. "You _know_ you can." John protested,
quietly.

"Do we? 'Cause if you can help Horse's girl suck some other asshole's skinny
fuckin' dick-"

"Say _what?_" John rounded on Titan. "I didn't fuckin' help her!"

"You let her keep on doing it, dintcha?" Blaczynski retorted.

" 'Cause the alternative was ripping Horse's heart out of his fucking chest at
_exactly_ the wrong moment, man!" John illustrated the mental image with a
gesticulation. "We wouldn't HAVE him if I'd done it before now. You think he'd
have made it through without at least, like, the _idea_ of her? And I'm not
sure I'd have made it through without _him!_"

"You think it was a choice between this, or no Protectors at all?" Rebar
checked.

John sighed and nodded. "Could be." he agreed. "Even Horse has his limits,
man."

The three Defenders exchange quick glances, communicating silently.

"Tell me he was at _least_ pissed at you." Firth demanded.

"He was fucking furious, bro."

"Surprised he didn't tie your ass in a pretzel." Titan said. "Fuck, he's gonna
have a face like Armageddon landing when he gets back…"

"Yup." John agreed.

"Yeah well, you fucking deserve it." Sikes folded his arms.

"C'mon don't be like that, it's not like I did it to _help her._"

"But you DID help her though."

"Lads."

Everyone looked at Murray. Murray was like that - you could completely forget
he was there until he opened his mouth, and softly Scottish though his speech
might have been, everyone shut up and listened. Never mind that he was the
smallest of the SOR's enlisted men, he commanded attention whenever he chose
to.

"…Let's just watch the movie."

Everyone paused, then settled a bit. There was a round of nods and murmured
agreements, and the guys all sat back down on the couch.

Baseball was left standing. "Uh… hey, lemme in there…" he ventured

"Couch is full, John." Firth told him, not looking at him.

"Dude, I was sitting _right there_ a minute ago-"

"Couch. Is full."

John directed a pleading look first at Rebar, who was avoiding eye contact,
and then at Murray who gave him a complicated facial shrug which said quite
clearly that he wasn't about to rekindle the argument by disagreeing and that
John was just going to have to put up with it.

After a moment's hesitation, John settled for a resigned throat-clear and
sitting cross-legged on the hard, cold floor _next_ to the couch, rather than
wrapped up with his buddies. It didn't feel right at all, and not even
Sellers' dignified on-screen antics could fix that.

They watched in silence for a little while, even managing a collective chuckle
at the exchange - '_If I were my father, I'd have you tortured._' '_If you
were your father, I doubt very much if I would have kissed you._'

The tension seemed to be just about starting to dissipate - or maybe that was
just wishful thinking on John's part - when there was a distant, muffled roar
of some kind and the whole building _shook_ as if a bomb had gone off nearby.
Huge, metal-framed and reinforced as it was, they still knocked the couch over
in scrambling off it alert for danger.

"What the _fuck_?" Firth asked.

"Sounded like it came from the gym." Murray aimed a thumb towards it. "Ah…
shit, you don't think Adam…?"

He was left standing as the rest of them took off at a run.

Waiting for them in the gym was a sight more disturbing than anything John had
seen on Capitol Station or in training. Adam's jerry-can was lying at the
bottom of the wall at the far end of the gym from where it was usually kept
and had burst open, spilling buckshot all over the floor. The wall itself had
a crater in it about halfway up, where the cinder blocks had been smashed in
by something very heavy hitting it with huge force.

The 100lb plates were all off their racks and scattered around the gym like
schoolyard frisbees. The spring steel barbell at the deadlift station - the
one commissioned especially for the Protectors - had bent beyond hope of
repair, the one at the squat rack was now roughly the shape of a hockey stick,
and Adam was sitting in the middle of the floor, cradling his elbow and
sobbing.

Baseball was at his side in a flash. "Oh man, brother, I- _oof!_"

The air rushed straight out of him and he felt a stab of pain in his ribs as
he found himself caught in the kind of crushing bear-hug that might have
pulped an alien and badly hurt most humans.

There was nothing to do but put his own arms around his best friend's huge
shoulders and hold on, rocking him back and forth.

The guys all left him to it and found stuff to do. Murray, Firth and
Blaczynski set about cleaning up the gear, while the Defenders gathered round
the damaged wall and held a hushed consultation with one another.

Just as the last of the plates was being racked up, Rebar sidled over and gave
John a tap on the shoulder.

"Dude, uh… that was a structural wall he busted." He whispered. "We kinda need
everyone out of here while we make it safe."

John nodded at him, then gave Adam's back a hefty pat. "Hey… Horse. Man, we
gotta move, okay? Come on, let's get you something to eat."

Adam nodded against his chest, and asked, in the most childish tone that John
had ever heard him produce, "…Can I have Eggos?"

Everyone had to pause to look at one another, despite the broken wall. Adam
Ares - Mister Nutrition himself, the best cook on the team - and _Eggos?_
Those were just two concepts that didn't go together, but now was _not_ the
time to argue.

"Sure brother. Sure. All the Eggos you want, man. Come on. And I'll sort that
elbow out while they're cooking."

"…okay."

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Charlotte Gilroy_**

Charlotte and Ben had landed on their feet with the move to Cimbrean. As the
only qualified midwife in town, not only was Charlotte busy but she was well-
paid. Ben meanwhile had quickly and easily fallen in with the city planning
department, and had been instrumental in devising an approach to utility
infrastructure that should hopefully mean that Folctha's roads would never
need to be dug up to access the sewerage, cables and pipes that ran alongside
rather than beneath them.

Cheap housing, decent salaries and rapid promotion? Folctha was a graduate's
fantasy.

Except when it resulted in Charlotte's best friend slumped inconsolable over
her kitchen table, of course. There was little they'd been able to do for Ava
except keep up a steady supply of tea and comforting words and contact.

Eventually, she sent Ben and Sean on a walk to go get some takeaway, from the
good Chinese place on the far side of town that didn't deliver. That earned
her an hour of alone time for some girl talk.

Ava certainly seemed to appreciate it. At least, she muttered "…thanks…" as
soon as they were gone.

"Darling, you're going to have to come up for air sooner or later." Charlotte
told her.

It had the desired effect. Ava laughed - a thin, delicate, slightly hysterical
laugh, but a laugh nonetheless - and finally unburied her face from her arms.
Instead, she rested her elbows on the table and combed her fingers into her
hair. "Sorry."

"For being upset? I think you have a right…"

"It's my own stupid fault though…" Ava sighed. Her hands dropped to the table
and she sat back to stare up at the ceiling instead. "What was I _thinking?_"

"Which bit?"

"Hmm?"

"The bit where you did it, or the bit where you were caught?"

"…God, I don't know." Ava looked around the room. "I just… I don't know."

The clock ticked for them a good ten seconds or so before she sagged and gave
Charlotte a pleading look. "What do you think?"

Charlotte took her hand. "You know… that's the first time you've asked for my
opinion on this."

"…It is?"

"Yeah."

"Oh…" Ava blinked at their hands. "…you'd have told me not to do it, wouldn't
you?"

"I would have." Charlotte agreed.

"Why didn't you?"

"You didn't ask." Charlotte gave her an apologetic facial shrug. "And… I don't
think you'd have listened, either."

Ava paused, then nodded and shut her eyes. "You know why I did it though,
right?"

"Darling? You did it because you were lonely and horny and Sean's hot and
caring and he's a good match for you." Charlotte asserted. "Don't over-think
it."

"But that's just the problem!" Ava exploded, tugging her hand out of
Charlotte's grip to gesticulate. "I didn't think about it _enough!_ Or… or I
thought about it trying to convince… trying to…"

She gripped her hair again "I don't know where I went _wrong_."

"Maybe the bit where you cheated on your boyfriend?" Charlotte suggested. Not
unjustifiably, Ava glared at her. "No, darling… maybe it really is that
simple. Maybe you should have either… asked him for permission, or broken up
with him. Treated him honestly."

"You're taking his side?" Ava asked

"You're not?"

Ava hesitated, then swallowed, sighed and rubbed her face. "I'm sorry." She
said. "You're right. I should have. I… he said it himself, he was separated
from me too."

"Working relationships are about honesty." Charlotte told her. "If you ever
have to hide something, if you ever have to lie about something… maybe it's
not working."

Ava nodded, miserably. "And it wasn't working for a long time. Right from the
moment he decided to sign up." she said.

"Don't blame him." Charlotte cautioned.

"I don't! I… I don't. I just… He was doing what he had to. But I should have
told him then that I wasn't happy with it. Maybe if I'd done that…" Ava
sighed, and shook her head slowly. "It's done. Can't change it. I can't bring
it back, just like I can't bring Sara back, or home, or… or anything. I wish I
could, but I can't."

"So… what are you going to do?"

Ava flapped her arms in a resigned shrug. "Move on. I can't stay here, not
with Adam and Gabe, I'm not… I won't be able to…" She paused, exasperated by
her own lack of eloquence, then stood up. "The boys'll be back in, what, an
hour?"

"Give or take…" Charlotte agreed, as Ava shrugged her coat on and headed for
the door. "Why, what are you-?"

"I'm going to say goodbye to Dad."

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Byron Group Exploration Vessel 8** **_"Creature of Habit",_** **The Border Stars, Proximal End.**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

"Hey Jenks, we're coming up on RS-449!"

The Byron Group had sunk billions of dollars into starships, and the first few
had all gone missing. As had the one sent to find out what happened to them.
Byron Stellar Exploration's working theory was that they had all suffered some
kind of technical failure, and as such the Group's starship-building program
was on hold until they figured out what that failure might be.

Number 8 therefore was a Dominion-built vessel, custom made by the assembly
gantries at Irbzrk Shipyards after a substantial bribe. It stuck in the craw
to rely on alien tech, but at least it was alien tech built to the customer's
exacting specifications. It was, in the shipyard's estimation, the ugliest
thing they had ever built, and they had described it in contemptuous terms
that translated to something like "throwback"

It wasn't hard to see why. BGEV-8 was shaped for atmospheric re-entry, water
landing and seaworthiness, all of which had put constraints on her physical
properties and dimensions which had completely forbidden the Irbzrkian
designers from flexing their creative muscles, _especially_ when the clients
had insisted on redundant steel bulkheads throughout and that every single
component in the ship be A: modular and B: accessible at a moment's notice.
She looked more like a seafaring relic than a modern spaceship

There had been plenty of technical challenges to during the design phase, long
before the commission had been sent to Irbzrk. For starters, a ship's top
superluminal speed was in part a function of its sublight power-to-weight
ratio and acceleration, and in part a function of power to the warp engine.
While BGEV-8's power-to-weight ratio was excellent, disguising that the order
had been placed by a human organisation had required ditching the capacitors
and WiTChES, and relying on the Dominion's preferred convention of a big
reactor of some kind. This had limited the available power.

The result was a stately top speed of thirty kilolights. Enough to reach a
nearby star in about two hours, but still decidedly pedestrian, and this had
brought the supply problem into effect.

Humans needed nutrients. LOTS of nutrients. A crew of seven could chew through
two hundred pounds of food in a week, and at thirty kilolights BGEV-8's
exploration missions were expected to take months.

Months worth of supplies would have made the ship heavier. Making the ship
heavier would have hurt its power-to-weight ratio and slowed it down, meaning
that it would need to carry even MORE supplies, which would have slowed it
down _further…_ and so on. While the equation did eventually balance itself,
the end result was a much larger, much slower, and most importantly much more
expensive ship than Byron had wanted.

The solution was stasis. Everyone's bed doubled as a stasis chamber, and the
ship did a pretty cunning job of making sure that you went to bed, you got a
good eight or nine hours of sleep, and just as you were waking up fresh and
ready for a new day, time stopped working for you until the duty officer
decided you were needed again.

Naturally, nobody wanted to be effectively alone for subjective weeks at a
time, so in practice there were always two duty officers, and things were
carefully mixed up so that everybody worked with everybody else at some point
in the rotation.

Today was Kevin's second day awake. He'd put Joe Gibbs to bed last night, and
this morning had woken up to find Mitch Hamilton preparing breakfast for him.

He liked Mitch the best out of their crew. Mitch could fix a decent coffee and
breakfast, though everyone agreed that Kevin was the best cook on board.

Kevin was _also_ the best general odd-jobber, inventory-sorter, cleaner and
handyman on the crew, which was why he was its quartermaster. Everybody else
might have had the assorted skills that went into flying the ship or surveying
whatever interesting planets they stumbled across, but Byron had quite
correctly decided early on that every ship needed somebody whose job was to
keep everybody else comfortable, clean, well-fed and, ideally, well-advised.

Sure, being a glorified custodian wasn't exactly glamorous, but the pay was
even better than he'd been bringing in at Scotch Creek and there was just…
something about being back out in the galaxy again. Something about the thrill
of knowing that for better or worse they were doing something _real_,
contributing to taking some of humanity's eggs out of a single, vulnerable
basket.

And, if he was honest, something about the thrill of danger. He wasn't a
vagrant in a galaxy unaware of and unprepared for the human race now: he was a
ship's quartermaster

"Gotcha. I'll wake 'em up." he called.

Waking the other five was as simple as hitting the touchscreen on the wall as
soon as he entered the room and selecting "wake all". Instantly the black haze
filling every bunk faded, and his five colleagues - friends one and all - were
sitting up and looking around.

"Station day?" Jennie asked. She was their biochemistry expert, a specialist
whose job revolved around examining whatever organic compounds and weird alien
life forms they turned up. It was a good thing she was just as capable with
keeping the ship in peak condition, because their most recent circuit hadn't
turned up even a single Temperate world, a fact that made her tenure on this
first survey vessel increasingly tenuous. Why waste crew resources on somebody
who could be better used in a follow-up expedition?

It would be a shame to see her go.

"Yup. Mitch is shaking hands with them right now. Today's Friday, fourteen-
thirty ship time. Coffee?"

Everyone nodded eagerly and promptly set about their morning ablutions. Three
years of working together had sorted out a few kinks and sticking points
there: When everyone was awake, nobody got to soak in the shower or meditate
on the shitter: you got in, you did your business, you cleaned up, and if you
forgot to take your clothes or towel in with you, too bad for you. Modesty was
a luxury, and not one that the rest of the crew were obligated to engineer on
your behalf.

Everybody was grabbing cups of coffee with wet hair in short order.

Mitch, however, was frowning when he stuck his head round the hatch to the
flight deck. "Yo, they're refusing us docking." he called.

Everyone exchanged glances, and Monica and Derek - co-pilot and flight
engineer respectively - squeezed into their seats, leaving the three
scientists and Kevin to eavesdrop.

"Did they say _why_?"

"Nope, not yet… uh, Resupply Station four-four-niner, Byron Group Echo-Victor
Eight again. We'd sure appreciate an explanation. Why are being denied
permission, over?"

"Because we're human. Why else?" Kevin murmured rhetorically, quietly enough
so the three on the flight deck wouldn't hear.

"You think something happened?" Their resident astronomer, Charlie, asked him
in a whisper.

"Yup."

"Like what?" Jennifer asked.

"Swarm of Swarms. Bet you."

"No bet." Ryan grunted. He was their geologist and, as such, by far and away
the most profitable member of the crew. He liked to joke that the job of the
other six was to get him to someplace where he could dig up something
valuable.

"Yeah, never go against Jenks' nose for xeno politics." Charlie agreed.

"Never go against his nose for politics full stop." Jennie agreed.

"Jesus, they're launching fighters." Derek announced. "They _really_ don't
want us docking."

"…Woah there, take it easy Four-four-niner, you can plainly see we're holding
position. May we at least synchronize comms?"

"Remind them they _have_ to under Article Seven of the-" Kevin began to tell
him.

"I _know_, Jenks." Derek snapped.

"…Okay."

"Yowch." Charlie muttered.

"It's cool, he's just stressed… I'll get the big screen turned on."

Ryan frowned at him. "Why?"

"Because there's gonna be a message from Byron waiting for us."

He was right. No sooner had Derek bullied the station into grudgingly allowing
BGEV-8 to synchronize with the interstellar communications relay than the ship
was announcing a priority message for all eyes.

Monica put a few tactful light-minutes between them and the station and they
went dark in interplanetary space before relaxing enough to gather in the
ship's common area - a circular lounge with furniture that folded into the
deck to make room for the gym mat - and load the message.

Sure enough, their billionaire employer's frowning visage was the very first
frame of the message.

"_If I'm any judge, you'll have an inkling something's gone wrong by the time
you get this. If I know nonhumans, they're probably in the grip of a panic
again. Enclosed is footage which explains why in detail, but I'll make it
short: The Swarm of Swarms attacked Capitol Station. Destroyed it, in fact.
Some kind of human spaceborne special forces called the SOR got involved and…
ah, it's all in the video briefing that follows these orders._

"_Come back ASAP. Carter, Brown, you're clear to use the emergency recall. I
want the seven of you at our policy meeting. See you shortly."_

"Emergency recall?" Kevin asked.

"You heard the man, Mitch." Monica said, and tugged the chain that she'd had
round her neck from day one out from inside her vest. Mitch Carter produced
something from his pocket and together they slipped into the bridge.

"Emergency recall?" Kevin repeated.

"Little something the Group gave us after losing all those other ships."
Monica replied.

There was a subtle sound, a little like somebody had thumped a bulkhead with
their fist and caused the whole ship to give a dull ring. Interplanetary dark
space was gone in an instant, replaced to one side by a grey and cratered
horizon and, rising above it…

"Oh no." Kevin moaned. "That _stupid_ son of a bitch."

"What?" Ryan asked.

"He's had an open jump beacon to Earth this _whole time?_"

"Our emergency recall, yeah. What, is that a problem?"

Kevin spun on his heel and headed for his locker. "That's between me and Moses
Byron." he replied.

**Date Point 10y2m2w AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches.**

**_Gabriel Ares_**

Jess paused and looked up from her desk. "Doorbell? Are we expecting Ava
tonight?"

"I'll get it."

Despite time and physiotherapy, Gabe's old injury was getting progressively
worse, and hauling himself up out of his chair was still difficult. Which was
why he made a point of doing it every time he had an excuse--he might be on a
one-way trip to a wheelchair, but he was damned if he was letting it take him
without a fight.

Besides, letting Jess do something as simple as answer the door for him would
have made him feel like a cripple, and he hated that.

It was Ava alright, wearing her oldest and favorite jacket, the simple, rugged
one that she and Adam had got together before coming to Cimbrean, with the
"From Ashes" patch on the sleeve.

She gave him a tiny, sad smile that made him hesitate mid-greeting. "…Hey
Dad."

"…Hey."

"Adam found out."

Gabe let out a long-contained sigh, stepped forward and gave her a hug. "I'm
sorry, Ava."

She hugged back, tight and shaking, and mumbled something he didn't catch.

"What was that?"

"I said I'm sorry, I… I didn't see. I was so stupid, I…"

"Shh…" Gabe just held her a bit longer.

Eventually, she pulled away. "I'm… gonna go back to Earth." she announced.
"Try and, and… Try and be somebody. Somebody who isn't a complete fuckup."

"Hey, for what it's worth…" Gabe began "like I said, you're a daughter to me
nowadays. I won't lie, when you told us I was… kinda disappointed in you. But
I love you anyway, okay? I know you'll do okay."

"I don't know…" Ava sighed and leaned against the wall. "I can never seem to
figure out how to do the right thing."

"Want some advice?" Gabe offered. She looked up at him, waiting. "Well, okay,
it's more of a story…"

When Ava's expectant gaze didn't change, he nodded and told it. "There was…
back in San Diego, there was this woman, a Private Investigator. Terri Boone.
I met her… about a year, year and a half before the bomb went off. She'd shot
an intruder in her apartment. He was on her couch, had a gun, had no right to
be there… open and shut case of self defense."

"Anyway, Boone claimed that the guy she killed was working for somebody else,
and that they'd just try again. Which, that's a serious claim, we took it
seriously… nothing came of it. Nothing we could follow up on, anyway. There
were… nothing we could legitimately find, nothing admissible, pointed to this
guy working for anybody but himself. Right?"

Ava nodded, listening.

"Well… my whole job was about what was admissible. Building a case that'd
stand up in a court of law and not get thrown out on a technicality.
Procedure, procedure, procedure, right? That's the nature of police work, and
it's like that for a good reason. So, I found myself stuck. I believed Boone,
but I couldn't continue the investigation because I'd have strayed outside of
procedure. Can't do that, so I had to drop it."

He sighed. "A few months later, she was dead. And… She was tied up in the
bombing of the city. I can't go into it. But sometimes I ask myself if I could
have done anything differently. If maybe had I just been lax on procedure that
_one_ time, maybe those two million people would still be alive. It's
possible."

He held up a hand as Ava started to speak. "Or. Maybe they could have blown up
three cities. Or ten. Or maybe the whole world would be bombed flat from orbit
by the Hunters by now. I don't know. And that's kinda the point. I regret not
doing more for her… But I can't think of a single thing I'd do differently.
You see what I'm saying?"

Ava thought about it, then nodded slowly. "You can't do more than what seems
like a good idea at the time." she said.

"Right. You screw up, you move on, you learn, you screw up again." Gabe gave
her a wry smile. "Some of us screw up worse than others, but… There's no
secret. You've just got to forgive yourself and move on."

"Learn from your mistakes…"

"Right…" Gabe nodded. "Do you regret… what you did?"

"Yeah."

"You gonna do it again?"

"_Hell_ no."

"There we go, then. You're a better woman than you were yesterday."

Ava managed to laugh at that, though she sobered again quickly. "…I'm going to
miss you, Dad."

"I'll miss you too. Come back, okay? When you're ready."

"When I'm ready. I promise."

They hugged again. "Goodbye, Dad."

"Goodbye."

He watched her down the stairs, then let himself back into the apartment. Jess
took one look at him, stood and gave him a hug. "Are you okay?"

"How much did you hear?"

"All of it."

Gabe sighed. "I'll be… I'll just learn from my mistakes and move on, like I
told her to."

"That's easier said than done."

Gabe just shrugged, and shrank down into his chair again, rubbing his face.
"_Esi es la vida_."

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**Byron Group Head Offices, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth.**

**_Kevin Jenkins._**

"Look, Rachael, I'm telling you this is _important_."

Kevin had dealt with his employer's personal assistant before. Byron had a
policy where literally anybody in the company could arrange a meeting with
him, and crewing one of his ships was one of the positions that earned you a
place in the _short_ queue for those meetings… but there was still a queue.
The idea that somebody might want to meet with him urgently apparently wasn't
in her briefing. "And I'm telling _you_ that Mr. Byron sees people with
_appointments_." she repeated.

"And how long will an appointment take to arrange?" Kevin challenged her.

"If it's really that important I can fit you in for tomorrow at-"

She was spared Kevin's frustrated lambasting by her phone ringing, and Moses
Byron's voice on the speaker. "_Rachael, if you don't let him in I do believe
I'll just need a new door anyway._"

"Yes, Mister Byron."

She gestured to the door for him.

Byron's office was just as calculated as everything else about the man, in
Kevin's opinion. He had pretty much instantly pegged Byron as a self-
interested bastard who had his head on straight enough to spot that public
opinion was a more valuable currency than mere dollars, and everything the man
did as being part of that philosophy.

The office wasn't large, and you'd have been forgiven for mistaking it for
that of a high school principal or a junior manager, rather than a man whose
personal wealth eclipsed anything that Kevin could have imagined earning in
several lifetimes. There was nothing either ultra-modern or obviously antique
on display, just a few small bookshelves, some framed family photographs, a
nice view. You had to look closer to spot that the desk was a bespoke piece in
pale oak, see the hand-stitching in the office chair, or notice that the
coffee next to the machine in the corner probably cost more per hundred grams
than the ones Kevin had served in his bars had cost per thousand.

It all spoke to a fondness for the benefits of a billionaire's life while
keeping up a pretense of frugal moderation.

"Got to hand it to you, Kevin, not many people _demand_ to see me." Byron told
him, standing up politely. He was like that, always polite and engaging even
if he was obviously nettled.

"Yeah, well, not every day I learn we've had a back door open around the moon
for… what, five months?" Kevin told him.

"And?"

"Mister Byron, that's like the worst idea since… It's a _really_ bad idea."

Byron's head inclined slightly to one side. "Why? You know something I don't?"
he asked.

"What, _besides_ the Swarm of Swarms? You sent us that video, boss man." Kevin
told him. "You think if they can do that to Capitol Station, they'll struggle
with us?"

Byron pushed his chair out of the way and stepped over to the wet bar in the
corner. "The Hunters" he said "Don't have a dang thing anywhere even close to
Sol."

"And how do you know that?" Kevin asked him.

"Oh, that's easy." Byron said. "All we needed was a Hunter's corpse. No
shortage of those about, didn't even have to send a fightin' _Homo Sapiens_
out to grab one. Just put in a call to the right people. Once the eggheads had
its communication implants, engineering a sensor that could pick up their
chatter was simplicity itself. They assure me there are no Hunters anywhere
near Earth. Drink? I ain't no bartender but I mix a decent Creole…"

"And what about other threats?" Kevin asked, declining the offer with a hand
gesture.

Byron paused in pouring a drink for himself. Kevin noted idly that although
he'd offered a creole, what he was pouring for himself was actually a Shirley
Temple. "You mean to tell me you _know_ about some other threats?" he asked,
quietly. "What, you were involved in strategic intelligence briefings while
you were cleaning tables at SCERF?"

"One of the NDAs I'm under forbids me from telling you how many NDAs I'm under
nor for what reasons." Kevin shot back. "We're talking serious felony stuff
here. But fuck, if it's serious enough and if I have to, I'll break every last
fuckin' one and go to the pen knowing I tried to avert disaster."

Byron arched an eyebrow at him.

"…Though I'd take it as a personal favor if I didn't _have_ to." Kevin
admitted.

"That serious, huh?"

A new voice entered the conversation. "More than you might guess, Mister
Byron."

Kevin and Byron turned to the door. A slim, trim woman in a dark suit gave
them a slim, trim smile and invited herself in. Of Rachael, there was no sign.
"Mister Jenkins. I'm pleased to see you have this well in hand. I'll pretend
the bit where you mused about sharing classified information was purely
speculative."

"Special Agent… Williams, right?" Kevin greeted her, dredging the name up from
memory. They hadn't met since the Hierarchy debriefing at Scotch Creek, back
before the San Diego blast. "Pleasure to see you again, always nice to see my
tax dollars walk in the door wearing Armani."

"Good memory." Williams acknowledged him.

"How's your partner? Hamilton, right?"

"He's at his daughter's Bat Mitzvah, thank you for asking. I was invited but,
well… there was a serious incident involving an unknown, unshielded and only
_barely_ encrypted jump beacon orbiting the moon. Lucky for you that ship you
rode in on was broadcasting Moses Byron's name everywhere, or you'd have been
dead within seconds of arriving."

Byron cleared his throat. "I'm not used" he declared "to being ignored in my
own office."

"Where are my manners?" Williams asked, smoothly producing and opening her
identification. "Williams, CIA."

Byron glowered at the seal she was showing him for a good few seconds as if
expecting it to be so cheap a forgery as to fall apart in her hands. When this
failed to happen, he grudgingly put his drink down and extended a hand.
Williams didn't shake it.

"So." Byron sat down to cover the snub. "Would either of you care to indulge
me as to why in the good gosh-darn the Company just walked into my office and
my PA is nowhere in sight?"

Williams turned a hand palm-up, inviting Kevin to speak. Kevin's caution
briefly warred with his desire to launch into a full-blown rant at Byron, and
won. Somehow, he suspected he was being tested here.

"There's… let's call it the Big Bad. Out there." he said. "Bigger and badder
than the Hunters, that's for sure. It wants us all dead, it might _use_ the
Hunters to get what it wants… and it's old. Old like you'd laugh me out of the
office if I told you."

"How Lovecraftian." Byron drawled, swirling his drink. He had that look Kevin
had seen on several men in his time, the intense one that spoke of furious
calculation going on silently while the face remained impassive.

"I'd almost _prefer_ Lovecraft." Williams said. "Mister Jenkins has put it
with supreme delicacy, so allow me to be blunter: we are, in real terms, no
more militarily powerful on the interstellar scale than we were ten years ago.
Forget Cimbrean, and the Firebirds and the V-class destroyers. Forget the
Hephaestus LLC and your own accomplishments, forget even the panicky politics
of the Dominion. In real terms, the human race collectively is still very much
insignificant. But so is a grain of sand, and if you've ever got one of those
in your sock, Mister Byron, you know just how irritating a grain of sand can
be, and how badly you will want to _scratch_ it."

She flashed that slim, trim smile again. "Except that in our case, scratching
is for now impossible thanks to the system containment forcefield that _you_
violated."

Byron took a sip and set his glass down. "This seems" he observed "like the
kind of critical information that a man in my position, doing the things I was
doing, ought to have been told."

"You were, and still are, judged to be a dangerous personality." Williams told
him. She stepped forward and, uninvited, put her briefcase on Byron's desk.
"Given that you _had_ the information to know that your stunt with that beacon
was a bad idea and went ahead with it anyway, that judgement stands."

"And you figured that an _ignorant_ dangerous personality was less of a
problem than an educated one?" Byron retorted. "Extinction ain't exactly in my
business plan. Had I known _that_ was on the cards…"

"Spare me." Williams interrupted. "We know that Governor Sandy hinted about a
danger with neural implants to you in private. Anybody with your resources
can't possibly be ignorant of just how aggressively the SOR and JETS were
formed, nor of the huge sums of government money that went dark at the same
time. And if you _were_ somehow oblivious to all of those, I defy you to look
me in the eye and tell me that San Diego escaped your attention."

Byron's expression didn't change, but he did draw a long and slightly
indignant breath as he listened.

"You already _had_ all the information you _needed_, Mister Byron." Williams
scolded him. "And still you proceeded unwisely. I shudder to think what you
might have done had we filled in the detail for you."

"Shoulda co-opted me, then." Byron grunted.

"Maybe." Williams agreed. She turned to Kevin. "Mister Jenkins, I appreciate
your involvement here, and I'm sure you could contribute in all sorts of ways,
but this conversation between the United States of America and Mister Moses
Byron is _not_ for mortal ears. I'm sorry."

Kevin knew better than to argue. Williams held all the cards here.

"Arright." he agreed. "But before you lay into my employer…?"

Williams nodded and made a gesture of invitation.

"If there's a learning point in this whole clusterfuck, it's that we _really_
shouldn't be keeping our people in the dark, arright? That goes for you too,
Mister Byron. Briefing only two members of the crew about the recall meant I
never got the chance to warn you it was a bad idea."

Williams and Byron frowned at each other, then both made a conceding nod.
"There's a fine art to secrecy." Williams agreed. "Errors in judgement may
have happened all round. We intend to address that."

Byron just nodded again. "Fine." Kevin told them, breathing a little easier.
"You two godly folks have fun talking over the mortal's head. I'll see ya at
that policy meeting, Mister Byron."

"I'd be grateful if you would shut the door please, Mister Jenkins." Williams
said. She produced a phone from her pocket, and tapped at it as Kevin crossed
the room.

Kevin couldn't resist just a _little_ eavesdrop as he closed the door. Before
it clicked softly shut, the last he heard was "It's me… Yes, he's right here
Mister President…"

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**

For a blissful few seconds when Adam woke up, there was just the light of
sunrise staining what promised to be a clear blue sky and the loose, relaxed
feeling of muscles newly mended by Crue-D. In those seconds, the world was
perfect.

Then yesterday hit him in the head.

"…Fuck."

He levered himself upright. He was still in his civvies, basketball shorts and
a T-shirt that he'd made himself, one of the few items of clothing he had that
was actually loose on him.

Baseball was slumped in an armchair in the doorway, snoring quietly with a
book on his knee. Somebody had draped a blanket over him, and there was a mug
of tea on the floor next to him, untouched and long gone cold. Adam recognized
one of Major Powell's mugs.

Remorse stabbed him right in the heart. Base was going to be suffering from
lost sleep for the rest of the day, which was no fun at all on the SOR's
training regime. A quick glance at the clock said it was only 0530. A Cimbrean
day was twenty-eight hours long in total - close enough to Earth that people
didn't really suffer from the difference. In fact, the extra hours usually
translated to feeling like every day had been both productive and restful.

Still. If Base had been up most of the night…

"John?"

Base started slightly in his seat, and blinked his eyes open. "Uh? Oh, shit."

He straightened up, moving his back sinuously with a rapid-fire of little pops
and crackles as he cleared out the stiffness from a few hours of bad posture.
"Wasn't supposed to sleep…"

"You okay, bro?" Adam asked him.

"Are you?"

"Fuck if I know." Adam grumbled and sat up properly, swinging his feet down
onto the floor.

John didn't say anything, just bookmarked what he'd been reading, retrieved
the tea, sipped it, grimaced, and took both book and drink into the kitchen. A
few seconds later, Adam heard the microwave close and hum into life.

First things first - after any serious injury was repaired by Crue-D, the
first thing to do was to test it. Twenty push-ups were more than enough to
confirm that his elbow was fine, and they blasted out some of the dust in his
head for good measure.

He padded through into the kitchen. "You stayed up all night?" he asked.

"Yeah. We figured somebody had to keep an eye on you."

"Dude, I wasn't gonna do something stupid…"

"I know, just…" John shrugged expansively, and sipped his re-heated tea.

"…Thanks, bro."

"First breakup's always the worst." John sighed.

"I can't _believe_ her." Adam sighed, thumping over to the fridge. To his
quiet delight, there was still half a box of Eggos in there. "Where did you
even _get_ these on Cimbrean?"

"Londis."

Adam grunted and nodded as he turned on the grill. Able Seaman Thomas
_'Londis'_ Magoro derived his nickname from a chain of British convenience
stores, thanks to his legendary ability to procure almost _anything_. If you
wanted something and you wanted it quickly, you went to Londis.

"I gotta ask, brother…" John said. "Eggos?"

Adam shrugged "My dad made them for me whenever Mom was being difficult… Guess
they're my comfort food." he laughed. "Hell, shove enough butter and syrup on
them, they're probably a great fit for our macronutrients, right?"

John gave a half-hearted half-laugh and sipped his tea again.

"Something wrong?" Adam asked.

"Stop trying to put a brave face on it, man. You're torn up." John told him.

Adam hesitated, then shook his head and waved his hands resignedly. "It's done
man. It's over. Fuck her. Just gotta move on, I guess."

John just gave him a patient stare.

"…Alright! Alright. I'm fucking… I just don't know _why_ man?! How _could_
she! What the fuck? She just threw it all away? Why?"

"Brother… I love you, but you've got the girl-smarts of a fucking ten-year-
old." John grunted, and drained his mug.

"You're saying it's _my_ fault?" Adam asked, incredulous.

"Nuh." John shook his head. "But it takes two to dance, man. D'you really
think you were being fair on her? Never there, not really _there_ there even
when you were _there…_ you follow me?"

"She's still the one who-"

"Yeah." John interrupted. "but… I've done that shit too man."

Adam blinked at him. "You have?"

"I played around, yeah. Ain't proud of it, but…" John scratched his head
thoughtfully. "Look, the cheater's to blame, but they cheat for a reason. And
at the time it seemed like a good reason. That's all I'm saying."

Adam didn't reply, and they lapsed into thoughtful silence until the Eggos
were out of the grill and drowned in butter and maple syrup.

"What could I have done differently, though?" he asked. "I wrote her all the
time, called her every chance I got, took as much leave as I could to spend
time with her…"

"You know what I remember?" John asked. Adam had served him a couple of Eggos
as well, and he'd apparently decided he enjoyed them. "You remember that night
we were on the plane coming up to Scotch Creek to jump out here, and she
called you really upset about something? And at the end of that call she was
mad at you and hung up and you had no idea what she'd even called about?"

"…Yeah?"

"Par for the fucking course with you, bro. Every conversation you two ever had
worked out like that somehow. I mean… did you ever ask her how her degree was
going? Or, or take a look at her website?"

"She has a website?"

John rocked back. "Are you-? You don't even fucking know she has a website?!"

"What's on this website?"

"Her photos, man! She's a photographer, or did you not notice that? It's her
portfolio!"

Adam just stared at him, shaking his head slightly while he chewed.

"Jesus fuck." John rubbed his forehead. "Do **_I_** actually know more about
your girlfriend than you do?"

"Ex-girlfriend."

"And this is fuckin' _why,_ man! This shit right here is why she cheated on
you."

Adam looked down at his plate. "Doesn't excuse it." he grunted.

"No! But it _explains_ it though!" John took a breath and cooled down. "She
didn't just do this _'just because'_, brother. She _had_ a reason, even if
that reason wasn't good enough. I mean, how much leave did you have saved up?
Sixty days? Use it or lose it, right? I remember, the major had to _order_ us
to take leave time."

"Yeah but, ramping down and coming back up on the training takes a month each!
That would have put us behind-"

"Adam." John sighed. "I'm not telling you if you were right or wrong not to
take leave. I'm telling you _why_ it happened, and what more you could have
done. That's all. You could have taken more leave, you could have spent more
time with her, you could have actually _taken an interest_. You didn't do any
of those things and… well, this happened. She's the one who did it, but you've
gotta ask why she felt she had to. Right?"

Not wanting to admit out loud that he was probably right, Adam forced himself
to shut up and think, rather than argue any more.

He kept to himself for the next couple of hours as the rest of the guys woke
up, and as the morning routine of keeping the dorm clean and tidy unfolded -
necessary, because it would have _reeked_ of male musk, body odour and sweat
otherwise - the simple chores gave his mind time to work.

For their part, the guys clearly sensed that he wasn't in a talkative mood,
and were cool with that. They were just there, solid and dependable and giving
him exactly what he needed - room and quiet to think. He appreciated that
hugely.

They were in the middle of hanging out the laundry when the dorm's phone rang.
Akiyama fielded it.

"Yo, Horse! Call from gate guard for ya!"

Adam and Base shared a frown, and he jogged over to take the call. "Ares."

"_Staff Sergeant, I have a gentleman here asking for you by name. He says it's
important. Name of Harvey, Sean Harvey._"

"Turn him away." Adam told them.

"_He says, uh… He says 'Ava's gone missing', sergeant._"

Adam must have paused for longer than he thought, because the next word he
heard was "_…Sergeant?_"

"…I'll be right there."

He notified Rebar of where he was going and jogged the few hundred meters over
to the main gates. Sure enough, Sean was loitering at the guard post, pacing
nervously.

Adam didn't waste time on being nice. "What do _you_ want?"

"She's just… gone. She went to see your dad last night and now she's… nobody
knows where she is." Sean explained. "I'm kinda worried she might…"

"Shut up."

Adam spun away from him, and was halfway back to the gates when Sean spoke up.
"This is why she did it, you know!"

Adam didn't turn around, but he did stop. "Do you even care about her?" He
asked. "Or did you just wanna get your dick wet?"

"Do _YOU_ care about her?" Sean retorted. "Or just about your fucking
_territory_?"

Several hundred pounds of angry SOR operator was in his face half a second
later. To Sean's credit, he did little more than rock back on his heels. He
was shaking, but he held his own. "You're just going to walk away and let her
be missing?"

"I was _going,_" Adam snarled, "to request _leave_ to go look for her."

"Sergeant?" The guards had stepped forward, cautiously. "Break it up, please."

"You know where she is?" Sean asked, ignoring them.

Adam didn't ignore them. He straightened. "What the fuck makes you think you
have a right to know?" he asked.

"_Because I'm her bloody friend you giant pillock!_" Sean snapped.

Adam's fist clenched. "_Friend?_" he asked. "Is that what you call it?"

"Yes!"

"Sergeant…" The gate guards had drawn closer. "Break it up, please."

Adam spared them a sideways glance, then very, very carefully relaxed his hand
before he aimed a finger at Sean's face. "You don't get _shit_ from me,
Harvey." he growled. "She can tell you herself where she got to, _after_ I've
gone and got her. Fuck _her,_ fuck _you,_ and _fuck off."_

He stalked back through the gates, back to the dorm, and right up to Rebar,
who'd taken over as their NCOIC since they'd lost Legsy. "Requesting leave."
he said, getting right to the point.

Rebar blinked at him. "Dude, you could have just told the gate guard."

"Yeah just… I'ma be gone all day. Wanted to grab some stuff and tell you in
person."

Rebar gave him a hug. "Okay brother. You go do what you gotta."

Adam just nodded and gave him a weak smile. He spun round the dorm, grabbing
his light ruck from under his bunk to throw in a couple of pouches of juice,
an old sweater of his that he never wore any longer on account of it being
much too small, two bags of beef jerky and a small first-aid kit.

He changed his footwear too. He usually wore flip-flops or went barefoot
around the base - boots and shoes were too expensive and broke too quickly
between the size of his feet, his own mass and his tendency to bounce around
rather than lumber. His hiking sandals, on the other hand, had taken
everything he could throw at them for two years.

A couple more essentials, including his phone, and he was back out of the gate
less than ten minutes after he'd sent Sean packing. He hung an immediate left,
followed the fence around two sides of the base and then set out through the
young broad-leaf plantation that came right up as close as the foresters were
allowed.

It was exactly what he needed. Adam had never been the kind of guy who did his
greatest thinking in a quiet room at the best of times, and five years in the
service had only strengthened the connection between his muscles and his
brain. It was almost like one couldn't work properly unless the other was
busy.

Sure, a simple steady hike - even at the hard pace he set - through gently
sloping woodland wasn't exactly taxing, but it was enough to settle his body
into a rhythm and let his brain get down to business.

Anybody coming back down the trail would have been a little alarmed to run
into a guy who put pro wrestlers to shame talking angrily to himself. He spent
the first two miles aggressively rehearsing all the ways he was going to tell
Ava off. Then he spent the next two miles telling himself off, rehearsing ways
to reconcile, rehearsing _her_ side of the argument.

When he did eventually run into somebody, it was an elderly couple out walking
their dog, probably from one of the little peripheral forest communities.
Folctha had attracted a lot of them - elderly couples and early retirees
wanting a place where their pensions would go further, a nudist camp, the odd
religious commune kept under close scrutiny by Cimbrean Colonial Security in
case they started showing any cultish behaviour, or just second homes owned by
hard-working Reclamation Project workers and Folctha city employees who wanted
somewhere quiet to retreat to for the weekend.

He saw them long before they were in earshot, shut up, met them with a polite
touch to his forehead and a "Sir. Ma'am." and ignored the stares. People
around Folctha were pretty used to the SOR, but these two had clearly never
met one of the Operators before. Their reaction was pretty standard for first-
timers.

The contact was enough to shut him up for the rest of the walk, or at least
turn his thought process into a steady mill of ideas being worked over
internally, rather than a crazy person shouting at trees. He was _almost_ in a
positive mood when he finally reached the point where the trail branched,
leading off in one direction toward Scrap Point, a research outpost dedicated
to diving the alien spaceship wreckage on the lake bed. The other way went
down to Sara's Beach, a public recreation spot that was actually a good
kilometre or so from the spot that he personally thought of as Sara's beach,
but much more accessible.

He followed the second trail until it intersected the paved road and, rather
than hanging a right and walking down to the lake shore as the trail signs
directed, instead crossed straight over and plunged on into the woods.

The ecological calamity that the Cimbrean Reclamation Project insisted on
calling "The Terran Microbe Action Zone" (and which the colonists knew rather
less formally as "The Skidmark") hadn't ever reached out this far, and so none
of the native flora had been felled. It was still being steadily and
relentlessly choked out by the Earthling imports, but that was all part of the
plan. First had come logging everything within ten kilometers of the Zone,
replanting and populating with species imported from Earth, and that was it.
The natural aggressiveness and biological advantage of Deathworld life was
being left to do the rest.

The result was a confused boundary zone where imported broadleaf trees gave
way to a tangle of Earth and Cimbrean flora, the latter steadily dying back as
the former out-grew them, shaded them over, guzzled the soil nutrients and, in
a lot of cases, parasitized them.

And then… nothing but natives. Native trees, native bird-ish things and
mammal-ish things and other life forms that were, for the most part,
surprisingly ordinary looking. The bird-ish things had mouths with teeth
rather than beaks, and the mammal-ish things were covered in something that
was more like moss than like fur or wool, and of course the universal constant
in Cimbrean fauna was three eyes… but nothing that actually looked amazingly
exotic. Just life, getting on with the business of living and oblivious to the
creeping extinction only a hundred yards away.

There was even a stand of _Cimbreaner Simiscamellia Delanii,_ the Cimbrean Tea
Bush. It was growing not even twenty yards away from a thorny, berry-laden
snarl of _Terraner Rubus Fruticosus._ The botanists had decided very early on
that in order to remain sensible and useful, the taxonomic system of
classification needed to be amended to include, above the Domain level, the
Planet rank.

Adam had to admit. Cimbrean was still beautiful.

He heard Ava long before he saw her. He could hear her voice between the trees
and bushes, talking to somebody. He had no idea who - Sean hadn't mentioned
anybody else being missing and people never came this far along the shore from
Sara's Beach…

She turned out to be talking to herself. She was right where he'd known she
would be - seated on the same old rock where she'd always sat, facing out
toward the same view with her clothes folded neatly on the stone next to her,
resting with her elbows and her knees, looking down at her feet.

She flinched when she realized somebody was there, then relaxed when she saw
who it was.

"…Hey."

Adam blinked. He hadn't foreseen that she'd be nude. "You uh… Did you swim?"

"No I didn't swim." she shook her head. "I just… I'm more comfortable this way
up here."

She leaned over and grabbed her t-shirt.

"Aren't you cold?" he asked.

She flapped the shirt to get it the right way out. "Kinda, but… It's not too
bad."

"Who were you talking to, anyway?" Adam asked her. There was nobody else
present.

"This is going to sound really stupid…" Ava's face went a little red as she
tugged her shirt on and covered up.

"What?"

"…I was talking to Sara."

Adam hesitated, then gently rested a concerned hand on her upper back. "Baby…"

The term of endearment surprised him. After everything, after learning what
she'd done, his first instinct was still to be tender and to love her?

"I know." Ava nodded, and rubbed her face. "I know she's dead, I know. It's
stupid, I just-"

"She was _fourteen,_ Ava." Adam sat down. "Maybe not the best source of life
wisdom, you know?"

Ava sobbed a laugh, and they sat together in silence for a long time. Not
touching, but close.

"I brought some juice. And, uh, a sweater. And stuff." Adam handed her the
bag. A tiny grateful smile put in a cameo appearance as she dug out one of the
juice pouches and the sweater, which she shrugged on. She must have been
colder than she'd realized.

"I should probably have told somebody where I was going, huh?" she asked.

"Sean was worried for you."

"And he went to you?"

"Yeah. He's got balls, I'll give him that."

Ava didn't answer. Instead, she impaled the juice pouch with a straw and
drained it.

"…What were you talking to Sara about, anyway?" Adam asked her once she'd
finished.

Ava glanced at him, then down at her bare feet. "You know what's really
stupid?" She asked. "Like, really, **really,** _'what-the-fuck-is-wrong-with-
me'_ stupid?"

She looked at him again. "You explained everything _perfectly_ yesterday. You
put it totally into perspective. I _get_ it, I get just how badly I fucked up,
and **still** there's this bitch voice in the back of my head that wants me to
believe… that's trying to tell me I did nothing wrong." She looked out over
the lake. "I was trying to get rid of it."

"By talking to Sara?"

She nodded, miserably picking at a fingernail. "Doesn't make a whole lot of
sense, does it?"

He shook his head gently. "Not really."

"Nothing makes sense."

Adam mulled that comment over.

"No…" he decided. "Things _do_ make sense. You know what the weirdest part of
all this is?"

"What?"

"If you'd just… _told_ me, or _asked_ me… fuck! I might even have been okay
with it! Because I _get_ it, I understand, you put it perfectly yesterday too.
I married the Air Force first." He sighed. "But instead you _lied_ to me, Ava.
For… what, two years?"

"About that." she agreed, nodding sadly.

"I get that I was neglecting you," Adam told her. "I get that I was making
decisions for us both without consulting you. Hell, I get that _he_ was…
probably good for you! What I _Just. Don't. Get_. is why you couldn't be
straight with me?" He wiped his own eyes off. "For God's sake, yeah, breaking
up with me would have hurt, but **_this?"_**

Ava, who usually shed tears so easily, seemed to have run out. Or maybe she'd
just gone somewhere past them, where they were no longer relevant. Either way,
her face was a mask of dry despondency.

_"Why,_ Ava?"

"…I've been asking myself that question all morning."

"And?"

"And… I really thought I was doing it for you. Charlotte said it was because I
was lonely and horny, but… But I can remember thinking _'it's this or I lose
him,'_ and…" she exhaled and ran three fingers through her hair. "It's so
stupid. _I'm_ so stupid. If I hadn't got so hung up on holding on to the past,
at least I'd still have my _integrity,_ you know? But because I got it in my
head I was doing it for you, I went and did completely the wrong thing."

Adam stood up. "I thought I was doing _this_ for you!" he told her, gesturing
at the full, hugely-muscled mass of himself. "But you said it last night: You
didn't want or need me to do this, and I sure as _fuck_ didn't want or need
you to cheat on me…"

He sat down again. "Maybe we both need to stop believing our own bullshit." he
concluded.

Ava just stared at him, so he sighed and elaborated.

"I thought I was doing this to protect you." He said. "Really I did, I was
convinced. But you're right, if I'd really been acting for _you_, then… hell,
I'd probably have gone into Colonial Security and been there for you every
night, and… Instead I just got caught up in this. I was angry and grieving
over Sara, I wanted to fight back, and then it turned out I'm _good_ at
fighting back. The _best_ maybe!"

He looked out across the lake, choosing his words. "Do you know what it's like
to get pulled along into something like that? Where _everything_ just lines up
and you'd never even think of slowing down or stopping because it just feels
_right?_ Because you're enjoying it so much you don't ever want it to end?"

Ava nodded. "You feel like you're taking back your life." She agreed.

"Right."

"You feel like you're in _control_ but really you're strapped in for the ride
but because you've got a wheel in your hands you don't notice you're not doing
the steering."

"Right!"

"…That's how it was for me, too." she said.

"…Do you think that's the truth?" Adam asked her. "Or is it just more bullshit
we're inventing to make ourselves feel better?"

Ava paused. "…I… think it's the truth." she said. "Or at least… I hope it is…"

She trailed off, then spread her arms helplessly. "I don't know any more. I
spent all this time trying to do the right thing, and did completely the wrong
thing instead. I don't… I don't know if I can trust what's in my head."

"Then how can I trust _you?"_ Adam asked.

Ava didn't answer, just stared despairingly at the water. A couple of minutes
elapsed in mutual silence, before she finally spoke, quietly.

"We're done, aren't we?"

Adam nodded and stood up. "I love you, Ava." he said. "But there's just no… I
can't."

"I know…" She looked up at him, grief and remorse written in every nuance of
her expression. "I'm so sorry, Adam."

"…I'm sorry too."

He turned his back on her, and started back up the trail.

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth.**

**_Xiu Chang_**

White.

White and beeping.

And sort of a soft blue. Greens, too. Hints of scarlet light, and a click-hiss
valve noise that corresponded to a strange pressure in her chest.

Blink. Frown. Focus.

A question floated across her mind in three languages: _Where yi nǎlǐ_?

That wasn't right. _Wǒ kin I? Shi am nǎlǐ?_

So hard to _think_. She tried to take a calming breath, clear her head, and
something started to make an alarming sound.

"Xiu? Xiu! Nurse? Nurse help!"

…Purple? Moving purple, and dark skin, and a soothing tone, like Ayma
comforting a wailing cub.

"It's okay, it's okay… she's just awake, it's okay. Shhh, darling. Don't fight
the ventilator, it's okay. It's okay, you're safe."

_Xiu?_ What was a _Xiu?_

Oh.

Right.

…

_Nurse._

_Ventilator._

_Hospital._

**_Earth._**

So hard to _think_ but… those strangers by her bedside. The tiny elderly woman
in tears. The skinny old balding man holding her hand with stress plowing his
forehead. The tall fat man behind them with his hands on their…

No. No no _no,_ that was _wrong!_ She didn't have a _big_ brother! Her parents
weren't-

"Okay honey, shhh… calm now… I'm sorry, this is really distressing her, we'd
better put her under again… It's okay darling, you're just not ready yet… It's
okay…"

Something in her left hand. Something that made all the _wrong_ go away.

Something that…

Something…

…

White.

And… colours. Cards, by her bed. "Get Well Soon!" "We missed you!" "Welcome
home!"

There was no beeping, this time. No hissing or clicking, nothing in her throat
doing her breathing for her. Just… yes, a drip in her hand, and darkness
outside the window. Warm yellow light through a slightly ajar door, admitting
hushed conversation.

Xiu sat up, cautiously. She was alone, she had time to gather her thoughts,
assess the situation.

Fact check. She was in a hospital, with a drip in her hand. The gravity felt
normal. The air had a certain… _richness_ to it, warm and nourishing. She
couldn't tell what the voices outside were saying - their volume was much too
tactful for that - but the cadences _sounded_ English.

She carefully selected the right word. "…Hello?"

The conversation outside ceased, and then there were brisk footsteps, a rustle
of scrubs, and a middle-aged nurse poked her head round the door.

Her face lit up on seeing Xiu. "Oh! Hi!"

Xiu froze, having not planned the conversation this far ahead. "…Hi. Uh…"

"Oh it's okay honey, you're a bit disoriented right now, eh?"

"A-a little." Xiu nodded. "…I'm in Vancouver?"

"Yep!" The nurse patted the bed "I'm Liz. Am I okay to sit down?"

"S-sure."

Liz did so, settling comfortably next to her. "You and your friends made a
stir when you showed up! You especially."

"I-I did?"

"Oh! Where are my-? I'm sorry, can I get you something, sweetie? No solids
until the doctor says otherwise, but I could call up for some soup?"

"…Actually, that'd be really nice. Yes please."

"Okay. You'll be okay for a few seconds?"

Xiu nodded for her, and managed a little smile.

Liz wasn't long. Xiu heard her feet in the hall, a quick conversation, and she
returned in only a minute or two. Still, it was long enough for Xiu to sort
out her head and think through the most pressing questions she had.

"So." Liz said, bustling back in. "Where were we?"

"Are my friends okay?" Xiu asked her. "Julian and Allison?"

"They're fine. They're asleep right now, but they're just fine. You had the
worst of it, actually."

"I did?"

Liz gestured with her hand, raising her left arm and touching a spot on her
ribs, with an expression hinting for Xiu to do the same. When she did, there
was a dressing there. "You've been asleep for about three days." Liz told her.
"There were a couple of operations. Doctor Spilny will explain it all in the
morning."

"Can I see them?"

"In the morning sweetie. You're all pretty badly hurt, you need to rest."

Liz's tone was kindly and comforting, but firm enough to convince Xiu she
wouldn't get her way there.

She looked at the cards on her bedside again. "We caused a stir?"

"Especially you! Vancouver's own prodigal daughter, gone these ten years,
and-"

"_Ten years?!_" Xiu's hand flew to her face in shock. "How long were we-? Uh,
right… the escape pod… Stasis…"

"Oh, I'm sorry, sweetie, that just came out. I'm sorry." Liz soothed.

"No, it's okay… I knew it was going to be about that, but…" Xiu rubbed her
face. It didn't help. Her hands were shaking, so were her shoulders, and there
was an urgent heat coming up from deep inside her, behind her eyes…

Liz, demonstrating the sixth sense of mothers and nurses the world over,
pulled her into a hug before the tears even arrived, and let her get it out of
her system.

"I'm home… God, I made it, I'm home…"

"Yes you did."

Xiu disengaged gently and sat up, wiping her cheeks. "…Sorry."

"Don't even apologise to me, sweetie. It's okay." Liz smiled warmly, and
indicated that Xiu's soup had arrived sometime while she hadn't been paying
attention. Xiu didn't need prompting - she scooped it up and, after a
tentative sip to make sure it wasn't too hot, devoured the lot.

It wasn't the greatest soup ever. But it was warm, it was comforting, it was
_chicken_ - and it was amazing how many things in the galaxy _didn't_ taste
like chicken - and it lasted maybe thirty seconds.

"Whew!" Liz made an appreciative noise. "You needed that, eh?"

"Oh God yes." Xiu wiped a little from the corners of her mouth, trying not to
be embarrassed.

"Do you think you can sleep some more? You really should."

It surprised Xiu to note that she was in fact feeling exhausted. Hadn't she
been asleep for a few days? But Liz's suggestion actually sounded really good
right now.

"I'll… yeah, I think I can." She said.

"Okay. We'll be just outside if you need anything. Call if you need anything."

Xiu promised that she would and settled back onto her pillow. Liz fussed
gently in making sure she was properly tucked in, then bade her goodnight and
left, leaving the door open.

That left only the ceiling in the dim light, and one thought, as Xiu fell
asleep:

_'I'm home…'_

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**Byron Group head offices, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

"My God, what happened?"

Kevin could see why the question was being whispered. Moses Byron, who was
always the picture of smiling confidence and vitality, looked _stressed_.
Pale, even. Rather than striding into the room in his usual blustering style,
he more… shuffled. Thoughtfully.

"Did somebody die?"

"Shh."

Byron took a moment to survey the crew of BGEV-8, assorted board members and
department heads, and cleared his throat. "Been a development." he croaked,
and cleared his throat again. "This, uh… this planning session is cancelled.
I'll let you know personally when we reschedule. For now, uh…"

He coughed. "Rachael. Recall GEV-9 and GEV-10. Tell them under no
circumstances are they to use their jump drives - they've got to come back the
old-fashioned way."

"Mister Byron, that'll take them months-!" somebody protested.

Moses held up his hand. "I know. I ain't changing my mind. Oh, and, uh…
Trevor, some fine folks will be along later today to take a good look at your
department. Give them _full_ access. To everything, and I mean _everything,_
including Project Ophanim."

Nobody said a word - they just exchanged bewildered and slightly scared
expressions. Finally, Byron spoke again, looking at Kevin. "Everybody whose
name isn't Kevin Jenkins, go find something to do. I don't care what it is, go
home early if you want. Go on."

People practically fled.

"Based on the little… '_chat'_ I just had with the halls of power in this
great nation of ours…" Byron began, once the last door was closed "It seems I
need to hire me a no-man. Somebody who, if I've got fifty people kissing my
ass and telling me we're golden, if I look at you and you shake your head, we
bury that idea and never speak of it again. Sound like something you can do?"

"Does this thing come with a salary?" Kevin asked. He judged it correctly -
Byron laughed.

"Hah! And an office." he said. "Though if half the things I hear about your
cooking are true, I might include attending to the comestibles on your list of
duties."

"I could be persuaded to take a job like that."

"Good… good" Byron cleared his throat again. "…We dodged a bullet. By _this_
much." he confided, holding up two narrowly spaced fingers for illustration.

"Dodged at least two by my count." Kevin agreed.

"Yeah… I'll see you in the office tomorrow. You got a place to stay?"

"HR already got my hotel room sorted out." Kevin told him. "Guess I'd better
see them about somewhere more permanent, huh?"

"You do that." Byron agreed. He shook Kevin's hand and wandered out of the
room, clearly still deep in thought.

Kevin's mission pay had already been sorted out, and thanks to the miracle of
modern digital banking, calling and paying for a taxi were effectively the
same thing.

He'd planned on leaving Earth forever. He distinctly remembered how the word
had felt as he spoke it. Forever. Not for five years, not until something
better came along. _Forever_. Get himself out of his estranged daughter's life
and never look back.

It was the first time he'd even thought of her in years, and he ambled through
the hotel lobby and into the elevator in a pensive mood, only shaking himself
back into the here and now as the doors opened with a chime.

He was about to swipe his phone to open the door lock when a thought occurred
to him. Experimentally, he knocked on his own hotel room door.

"_Come in._"

The door wasn't locked, and Special Agent Williams was sitting in the large
comfortable chair by the window, putting down a tablet. "Well done." she
added. "You have good instincts."

"Save it." Kevin muttered, and sat on his bed. "Look, Williams-"

"Ah." she raised a finger. "Small note on tradecraft for you. '_Williams_' is
a cover name. Professionally and to you, I go by Darcy. Special Agent Darcy,
if you want to be formal."

"Darcy, huh? That a fake name too?"

"If it was, why would I tell you?" She smiled again. "I would have introduced
myself as Darcy if you hadn't dug up Williams to say hello."

"Pardon me for spoiling your entrance." Kevin deadpanned. "So what, are you
offering me a job as well?"

"I am." she agreed. "Though I suspect the title won't be as impressive as
whatever it is Byron's calling your new role."

"Comestible attendant."

Either Darcy's professional façade genuinely did slip for a moment, or else
she was by a league the most flawless liar Kevin had ever met. "Hah!" she
giggled, and raised a hand to cover her mouth. "Oh, that's good. I like that."

"So what _would_ my job be?" Kevin asked her, deciding he probably had got
through to the real woman under the Company act, whoever she was, and allowing
himself a satisfied smile.

"Oh, exactly the same as you're doing for Moses Byron - veto any ideas of his
that strike you as unwise. You'll need… well."

She hefted a light black satchel from beside her chair and handed it to him.
Inside was a brand new Samsung tablet still in its box, and some kind of a
black device to attach to it.

"What's the box do?" Kevin asked.

"Encryption, decryption, secure communications…" Darcy shrugged. "_Don't_ plug
it into any device other than that tablet."

"What'll it do, explode?"

"No, it just won't work. But it would still technically be a felony."

"Communication with _what_?" Kevin pressed.

"A secure server." Darcy said. "Full of briefings and reports and documents
that you'll need to read, though I _suspect_ that a lot of what's in there
won't come as that much of a surprise to you."

Kevin nodded. "Just two more questions…"

Darcy sat back and delicately crossed her legs. "Shoot."

"One: Why me? I ain't exactly the model of ambitious patriotism, you know."

"Ten years ago, you drove up to the front gates of SCERF carrying the kind of
intelligence we were absolutely starving for." Darcy told him. "You've clearly
got _something_ that does the job of ambition, even if it's just that you'd
rather not get nuked from orbit. Certainly, you're smart enough to know that
as a real possibility and you've taken active steps - potentially at risk to
your own liberty and person - to combat it." She inclined her head. "Now would
_you_ say that somebody like that wasn't worth our time?"

Kevin frowned and didn't answer.

"What's your second question?" Darcy prompted him, eventually.

"…Does this thing come with a salary?"

**Date Point 10y2m2w1d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Planet Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_John Burgess_**

"Woah… hey, I thought you were gone for the day, man?"

Adam just shrugged and hung his light bag by the door. "I took a day. Got to
sort out some things. Get my head right. But… you know me, I gotta be doing
shit to think right, you hear me?"

"I hear ya." John agreed. "I was gonna lift…"

"Nuh-uh. We're wrestling. _Now_."

Fifty seconds later, the mat was grinding painfully against John's face and
his arm felt like it was one Newton of force _at most_ from dislocating.

"So." Adam shifted his posture just a little bit while John's feet scrabbled
ineffectually for purchase. "Let's talk about how you kept my cheating ex's
secret for her, '_brother'_."

**Date Point 10y2m2w5d AV**  
**Folctha, Planet Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

"Ready?"

"…No."

"They're calling."

"I know, I just…"

Ava took one last look. It would have been nice to think of Folctha as her
home, but… it wasn't. Not any more. Not really. It was all white buildings and
parks and streets, now. There were cars, there was the beginning of a rail
network to connect to the outlying farms and villages. There was a thriving
street or two full of shops. There was a supermarket. There were paved roads,
advertisements, the neon green cross of a pharmacy. It was a town, now. It
wasn't the Folctha she'd lived in.

She could remember little wooden chalets tucked between the native trees. She
could remember being _happy_ in a place that might have been here, but wasn't
_here_. She could remember…

But that's all it was. Memory.

"…I'm ready."

Charlotte and Ben waved sadly to her from beyond the glass. She'd already said
goodbye to Gabe, and Adam… she wasn't surprised he hadn't come. Jess had work.
Hayley had left Cimbrean years ago.

She presented her passport, stepped through the security arch, shuffled into
place on the Jump Array's deck alongside Sean, and fidgeted as the last few
people did likewise. The gate was closed, there was a short countdown, and…

And she was on Earth.

The Earth end of the Byron Group's commercial jump array was Hamburg airport,
and Ava could _sense_ being on a different planet even if the architecture
hadn't suddenly and confusingly changed without so much as a flicker.
Folctha's municipal gravity generator might have exactly duplicated Earth
gravity, but it couldn't duplicate the heavy richness of the air. It was like
coming down from mountaintop to sea level. It was warmer, denser, more
oxygenated and more humid. Earth was a _hot_ planet by galactic standards, and
doomed to get hotter despite the rapid one-eighty in carbon dioxide production
over the last eight years. She could taste and smell that fact in every
breath.

"So. Hamburg." She hoisted her bag. Beside her, Sean snapped the drag-handle
up from his and kicked it over into his hand.

"Yep."

"Are we flying back to London?"

"That's cheapest." Sean agreed.

"How cheap?"

"Fifty quid each."

"Good…" They passed through another security arch. "I can afford that."

"I won't hear of it." Sean told her. "You're going to need that money."

"But-"

"You're going to need a job. That means buses and the tube and maybe a taxi or
two. So keep your money and use it. You can pay me back once you're earning."

"You can afford that?" She asked.

"I've been writing articles for a bunch of different news sites and blogs,
working part-time at 'Spoons." Sean shrugged. "I can afford it, just. I was
probably going to wind up looking for a lodger anyway. Rent in London being
what it is I'd have made a fuck of a lot, too, but… I mean, money's less
important than helping you get on your feet."

Touched, Ava managed a smile for him.

"Besides," Sean added "I've got something coming up. My uncle Simon gets back
from Angola next week. If he follows through on what he was talking about in
his emails, maybe you and me, we could land on our feet."

"What's he doing in Angola?"

"Covering the election for Reuters."

"I've still got that offer from Byron Group…" Ava noted, glancing at the
corporate advertising for the jump array - Earth and Cimbrean, photographed
from orbit and connected by a line that cycled through all the classic, vivid
fibre-optic colours with the tagline 'O_ne small step…'_

"Moses Byron talks a good game." Sean agreed. "Hell, it seems like he walks
his talk too. I'm just not… I don't know, do you trust anybody who got that
big that quickly?"

Ava shrugged. "People like his whole _'ethics and integrity'_ brand. Even if
it's just an act for the camera, he's playing that part to the hilt."

"Is that the same thing as actually _being_ ethical though?"

"Sean…" Ava sighed. "Don't ask me about morals and stuff right now. I don't
feel qualified."

He inclined his head slightly, assessing her mood, then nodded and laid his
hand gently on her upper back for just a second. "Okay."

Neither of them said a word to the other for nearly an hour after that, by
which point they had boarded their plane, taken off and reached cruising
altitude. He'd been looking out of the window for most of that time.

"…Are we okay?" he asked.

Ava had been using the plane's wifi to check her website. She put the tablet
down when he spoke, and gave the question some thought. "We're… You're my very
best friend, Sean. Is that enough? I don't think I've got more than that to
give."

He nodded, and gave her a hug. "I'm sorry, Ava."

"…You didn't do anything."

"No, I did. I got selfish, and…" Sean shrugged. "I pushed."

"You didn't hurt me, Sean." Ava reassured him. "I hurt myself."

"And I helped."

"Yeah, well… you can stop helping me hurt myself by letting me take the blame
for this, okay?" She told him. "This whole thing has been a lesson, and I want
to learn it, not, not foist off the responsibility on somebody else." It was
her turn to give him a reassuring squeeze. "You learn your lesson, and I'll
learn mine. Okay?"

Sean nodded despondently, aware that lesson he was going to have to learn was
the one he wished he didn't have to. "…Okay."

He looked out the window again. "…That makes sense."

**Date Point 10y2m2w6d AV**  
**Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Vedregnegnug_**

"-show up. There we go. It seems we escaped."

Vedreg allowed a mingled pulse of relief and released anxiety to highlight his
body. A human would have shuddered. "I detest stasis." he declared. "Death or
life on the moment of a button press. Thank you for sparing us any
anticipation."

Kirk dropped his lower-right hand, the prosthetic one, off the escape pod's
control panel and gave a pleased nod. "And we have indeed arrived at our
destination. Good." he announced.

Their "destination", as far as Vedreg could tell, was a system in the middle
of nowhere, some five years' travel time from the final resting place of the
starship _Sanctuary_ at the meager ten kilolights that was their escape pod's
top speed.

Without the stasis field, they would have starved to death before completing
even a fraction of the journey, and theirs was one of the largest, fastest and
best-equipped lifepods in their late ship's stable. Most of the others had
been much smaller, cruder and slower. As it was…

Both of them glanced in the corner, and mutually decided not to discuss the
deathworlder in the room. Lewis had come scrambling into their escape pod
seconds before Kirk had sealed it, babbling about _Sanctuary_'s port living
area taking a bad hit and separating him from the others. He was now slumped
against the wall with his arms on his knees and his forehead resting against
them.

The escape pod's sensors had reported that all other life rafts had launched
alongside theirs, moments before Amir had suicidally rammed and destroyed a
Hierarchy dreadnought. Despite Lewis pleading and weeping at the console for
nearly an hour, however, there had been no response from any of them. He'd
finally given up and sunk despondently to the deck, scooted into the corner
and gone very still and quiet. Humans were almost as expressive as
Guvnuragnaguvendrugun, sometimes. Some of their emotions played out across
their whole bodies.

Vedreg could hardly blame him: Subjectively, scant seconds had passed since
Lewis had given up on his friends. Pointing out that as far as the rest of the
galaxy was concerned they had been dead for five years would have been both
unhelpful and tactless. Lewis had every right to grieve.

Rrrtktktkp'ch on the other hand were much more difficult to fathom without a
translator. By the standards of pretty much every other sapient life-form,
including their evolutionary 'cousins' the Vzk'tk, Kirk's species were
renowned for reserved emotions, impenetrable body language and inscrutable
expressions… but if the way Kirk paused upon glancing at Lewis and then patted
the grieving human awkwardly on the shoulder was any indication, he was
feeling the loss just as intensely.

Kirk had always been stoic even by Rrrtk standards, however. He turned back to
the controls, and indicated them to Vedreg.

"You see?"

Vedreg scrutinized the sensor readings. "That." he noted, with a swish of
accusatory maroon "Is one of the two system defense forcefields stolen from a
secure military facility of my people. The other of which now protects
Cimbrean, I believe."

"Yes." Kirk did not seem to be at all contrite.

"I do not approve of theft, Krrkktnkk a'ktnnzzik'tk." Vedreg chastised him.

"Would you have given permission if I had asked for them?"

"No!"

"Then theft was the only option." Kirk tapped some commands, and spoke
something untranslated in his native tongue, a sound like a handful of gravel
being tossed down a staircase.

"I beg your pardon?" Vedreg asked him. Kirk just made a satisfied nod, and
then carefully enunciated a stream of rattling Domain syllables into the comms
console.

The system forcefield deactivated.

No sooner had their pod crossed the threshold of where it had once been, than
it popped back up, with barely a Guvnurag's body-length of clearance sparing
the rear end of the escape pod. Kirk clearly wanted to take no chances with
anything hostile following them in.

Kirk nodded, and turned the translator back on. "Excellent."

"Dude." Lewis raised his head. "That wasn't even Kirk's line."

"…what?" Both of them looked at him.

"He said '_I have been, and will always be, your friend_'."

"…You speak Domain?" Kirk asked, aghast.

"No, I _understand_ Domain." Lewis hauled himself upright. "I couldn't _speak_
Domain if you cut my throat. Where are we?"

"_How_ do you understand Domain?" Kirk demanded.

"Dude, I've spent months on the same ship as you. I studied it."

"But… you shouldn't be able to _understand_ it!" Kirk protested.

"It's a language isn't it?" Lewis shrugged. "Fuck, I can't pronounce Welsh
either, but I could learn that just fine if I wanted. Now where are we and
why's it so goddamn important that you quote Spock at the forcefield?"

Kirk stared at him for a bit, then creaked a prolonged Rrrtk throat-clear, and
called up the system navigation display as the liferaft boosted up to two
lights and headed inwards.

"This system has no official name, and I'm not sharing its co-ordinates, as
much as I trust the both of you." he said. "Officially, it's unexplored."

"And unofficially?"

"I explored it."

Lewis frowned at him. "Dude, when did you have _time_?"

"It's more or less directly between Supply Station '_Haven In The Dark_' and
Nightmare, but no spacelane passes through here. At _Sanctuary_'s kind of
speeds, going cross-country meant having to stop to ground the hull charge
almost at every system, and this one has an appropriate gas giant."

"So why are we here?" Vedreg interjected, shading himself to indicate
curiosity.

"I… found something."

"What did you find?"

"I found out what happened to Mrwrki Station."

Vedreg glowed a cocktail of surprised royal blue and solemn green, but Lewis
just gave them both a confused frown. "Dude, not everyone in this boat's up to
speed on galactic _everything_." he told them. "What's Mur-workey Station, and
what happened to it?"

"Mrwrki was a Kwmbwrw research outpost on the Lleyvian Frontier." Kirk
explained. "That's a cluster of stars in extreme… well. '_up_'. That is,
perpendicular to the galactic plane, in the direction conventionally-"

"I know what '_up_' means, dude." Lewis snapped. "What happened to it?"

"It… vanished."

"And turned up here?"

"Yes."

"So, we're going to dock there."

Kirk hesitated. "Um… Yes."

"How do you _do_ that?" Vedreg objected. "How do you jump to accurate
conclusions so quickly? All humans do it, it's… infuriating!"

Lewis frowned at him with his mouth slightly open. "How do you _not_?" he
countered. "I mean, why the fuck _else_ would we be here, to take a selfie?"

**"**We aren't deathworlders." Kirk pointed out.

"But you've still got a working fucking thinker!" Lewis exclaimed, nonplussed.
"Don't give me the ancient evolution life-or-death bullshit whatever, I'd
expect _anyone_ to see that one coming unless the only thing their brain's for
is holding up their fucking hat!"

The two nonhumans looked at one another, then Kirk, with an air of extreme
delicacy, cleared his throat again. "Lewis… are you okay?"

Lewis' laugh had an incredulous note to it. "Are you se-? Dude, like, are you
forgetting the bit where our friends got killed? _Because that has harshed my
mellow a_ **_tiny fucking bit_**." He pinched his fingertips together a half-
inch apart and peered through the gap to emphasize the point.

"Will shouting at us bring them back?" Kirk asked.

"Wh-? Well, no…"

"Then what good does it do?" Kirk folded all four of his arms.

"…So, what, you're not even going to give the four of them any more than,
like, a _minute's_ consideration?" Lewis asked.

"Lewis-"

"Goddamn herd xenos, man, FUCK!" the human spun away into the back of the pod,
slumped against the wall, rubbed his face and then barked an order at the pod.
"Privacy field."

It snapped on in a fuzz of white noise and mercifully obscured him from view.

Kirk sagged, shook his head back and forth in a long, slow, swaying arc, and
then double-checked the navigation.

"Do you have any thoughts on how to help him?" Vedreg asked, not sure _what_
colour he should be and so settled on a kaleidoscope melange of concern,
alarm, empathy, fear, and many more.

"There is one simple trick to helping _any_ human, old friend." Kirk murmured,
guiding their lifeboat out of warp.

There was what had once been a space station below them, half-embedded in the
surface of a tiny irregular lumpen moon that was much too small to have pulled
itself into a sphere under its own gravity. The station was broken open,
missing power to half its decks, eviscerated from where it had crashed into
the surface of the rocky object, but still largely intact.

"And that is?" Vedreg asked.

"Mrwrki station."

"I _meant_, and the simple trick is…?"

Kirk ordered the lifeboat to dock with the station's one remaining powered
bay, and turned to face him.

"You give them the means to fight back."

**++End Chapter 23++**

While Deathworlders chapters will always be published completely for free,
with the aid of my backers on **[Patreon](http://www.patreon.com/HamboneHFY)**
I've now been able to take more time for writing! As a result, chapters are
now longer and more detailed (As if you hadn't noticed).

Thank you for reading, and for your feedback :D

