# Chapter 24: "An Alien World" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 10y3m3w AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Kirk_**

"_I don't like this._"

"You are perfectly safe."

"_Nothing between me and vacuum but forcefields? Fuck that, dude._"

"_How can one engage in pro-_…" Vedreg paused. "_No, wait. This is vulgarity
for punctuation and emphasis, isn't it._"

"_Hey, he's finally getting it. Miracles do happen!_"

Rrrtk had so much peripheral vision that they could almost see behind
themselves, so it was easy for Kirk to spot Vedreg's irritated glance in his
direction.

Kirk himself was meandering along at the front of their little trio, examining
the station. Lewis was in an irreconcilably foul mood and _hadn't_ appreciated
being pulled out of his sulk, nor climbing into a pan-species pressure rig -
little more than a lightweight pack on his chest that encased him in a
forcefield and kept the proper O2/CO2 balance. The device was absolutely
foolproof, designed to shut down only when it detected a breathable
atmosphere, but that didn't stop Lewis from fidgeting and adjusting it
nervously as if it might fall off at any second and strand him. Humans really
_did_ hate forcefields.

That fact always bemused Kirk. They would trust their lives completely to
steel and aluminium which might develop stress fractures and leaks, but
forcefields, the product of ultra-dependable solid-state electronic
components, left them nervous and sweating.

"_What are we even here for, anyway_?" Lewis asked, through the life vest's
built-in communicator and translator.

"The last time I was here," Kirk replied "I was able to use _Sanctuary_'s
nanofactory to repair the power systems and the station's own nanofactory. I
left it with instructions."

"_Instructions to what?_" Vedreg asked.

"_Fix the station._" Lewis said.

Even Kirk rounded on him. "Lewis… you are right, but how did you **know?"** he
demanded.

Lewis rubbed his chin with his thumb, then aimed that same thumb at part of
the wall. "_Hull breach. Recently patched and welded. We've passed six or
seven now and you've inspected every one. Plus, what else are you gonna tell a
busted-ass station to do with itself? Crochet some nice doilies and bake an
apple pie?_"

"_What are 'doilies' and 'apple pie', please?_" Vedreg asked.

"_Doilies are, like… Little fancy decorative cloth things, and apple pie is…
you take the fruit of an apple tree and a bunch of sugar and… Dude, it's not
important."_

"_I'd still like to know._" Vedreg pleaded.

Lewis hesitated, then shrugged and sighed, giving up. "_Okay, so, uh, you need
a bunch of ingredients. Flour, sugar, butter…"_

Kirk turned away to hide his amusement as he continued to inspect the repairs.
They needed to be _perfect -_ the station's back had broken during its crash-
landing, and while Kirk had no plans ever to launch it again, Mrwrki still
needed to be airtight and space-worthy.

He listened idly as Lewis explained apple pie to Vedreg, including his
reassurances that the ingredients that would have been unpalatable to Guvnurag
all had "vegan" and "gluten free" alternatives. For some reason, the whole
concept of "baking" seemed to fascinate Vedreg.

"_So what's the verdict?_" Lewis asked eventually.

"All of these are acceptable…" Kirk conceded. "I think we must assume that all
the others will be also."

"_Good. Sooner we get our asses behind a fucking pressure hull, the happier
I'll be_."

"This way, then." Kirk indicated a door.

"_Lay on, Macduff._"

Kirk nodded and activated it. "You know, that is a misuse." he pointed out as
it tortured itself a quarter open before jamming.

"_Nuh, the misuse is 'lead on, Macduff' right?_" Lewis disagreed, needing no
prompting to wiggle himself into the gap, brace his back against one door and
his feet against the other, and heave. Whatever obstruction had held it gave,
and the door slid smoothly the rest of the way open.

"That would be wrong, yes." Kirk replied. "But the original use was '_Lay on
Macduff, and damned be him who first cries 'Hold, enough!" -_ Macbeth was
defying Macduff and declaring that he would fight him, even knowing that it
was futile. He was not inviting him to lead the way."

"_Macbeth?_" Vedreg rumbled. Guvnurag speech patterns rendered the word more
like "Mac-u-bets?"

"Vedreg, old friend, an introduction to Shakespeare will have to wait." Kirk
told him, as they squeezed into the airlock. The Kwmbwrw were mercifully about
as large as Kirk's own species, and the airlock was designed for half a dozen
of them. It had just enough room to accommodate Vedreg's bulk alongside their
own.

The lock cycled without incident - Lewis' brute-force fix to the outer door
seemed to have permanently resolved the problem as it closed easily and
without complaint, and fresh air gusted in. When the inner door opened, there
was no sudden rush of depressurization - the interior was airtight.

"Excellent." Kirk announced, ducking under the door frame and into the great
ring hallway that ran around the station's interior.

"So… what's here?" Lewis was next, squeezing delicately out from where
Vedreg's furry mass had been pinning him to the wall. "What do we have?"

"A functioning nanofactory and an entire moonlet's-worth of raw material."
Kirk told him. "With those two things plus time, what we have is… anything."

"Food? Water?"

"Both in plentiful supply." Kirk assured him. "This station was intended for
extreme deep space observation. It's equipped to be manned by a full Grand
House - about six hundred Kwmbwrw - for a year between resupplies.

"And, uh… where _are_ those six hundred Kwmbwrw?" Lewis asked.

Kirk imitated a shrug for his benefit. "They were not aboard when I found the
place." he replied.

"The escape pods?"

"Launched, presumably. I did not check."

Lewis looked up at the ceiling and muttered something that the translator
decided was not for their benefit. Louder, he addressed the station's control
software. "Station, as a proportionate number per hundred, how many of this
facility's escape pods and life rafts have been launched, in total?"

The station's response boomed through the silent halls: "_Zero_."

"None?" Vedreg asked. Curiosity, confusion and mild alarm pulsed all over his
body. "But this place is derelict!"

"Derelict space station, disappeared, turned up crashed thousands of
lightyears from where it's supposed to be, crew missing, no escape pods
launched?" Lewis asked. "Kirk, dude, I've seen this movie. I want no part of
it."

"I did a thorough sweep when I first came here." Kirk asserted, firmly. "I
checked _everything_. There is nothing here except us."

"Fuck sake…" Lewis muttered. "…Okay. Whatever. But if we find their skinned
carcasses hanging from the ceiling somewhere, we are **leaving**. Okay?"

"Deal." Kirk agreed, before Vedreg could comment. Their shambling Guvnurag
companion had given Lewis a deeply alarmed look.

"So what do you have planned, anyway?" Lewis asked, peering down a hallway as
if expecting some kind of horrible flensing monster to be lurking there. The
fact that the lighting was clear and bright and the deck was plainly clear of
stalking beasts didn't seem to satisfy him one bit.

"That" Kirk mused "Is a very good question…"

"You don't _have_ a plan?"

"I have a fully powered space station, a nanofactory, and more raw material
than we could use in a lifetime even if we spent the first quarter of that
time building more nanofactorys." Kirk told him. "The rest is just… detail."

"_Detail?!_"

"Yes. Detail. What we build. How many. What they are for. What we do with them
and who we give them to."

"That's not _'detail_' that's, like, eighty-eight percent of the plan!"

"Well, that eighty-eight percent is yours, then."

Lewis stopped examining the corners in search of hideous mutants and frowned
at Kirk. "Come again?"

Kirk managed a complicated quad-limbed version of a shrug. "I am not a
deathworlder." he said, simply. "And just in this last hour or so, you have
demonstrated time and again that you think a few steps ahead of Vedreg and
me."

He folded all four of his arms. "In my experience, it pays to defer to
superior knowledge and skill."

"You're… giving me a whole factory to play with." Lewis stated, clearly not
quite able to believe it.

"One" Kirk nodded "That can build basically anything synthetic, including more
nanofactorys, and machines which can grow anything organic."

"To fight the Hierarchy."

"And the Hunters. Yes. All it needs is your imagination and input."

"Oh."

Lewis stared around at the station. He clapped his hands together once, rubbed
his palms and licked his lips.

"…Right."

**Date Point: 10y3m3w AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches.**

**_Adam Ares_**

"Ngggh…ow."

A rare wince and groan forced its way out of Baseball as Adam lowered him
gently onto his bunk. Walking wasn't something John could manage at the
moment, owing to the severe muscular tears in both his legs, and quite likely
some hairline fractures…everywhere, really. Adam winced in return. After all,
he was intimately familiar with the uniquely painful and intense training that
he and Base shared, and they both considered it a point of pride to bear their
suffering in quiet. It was part of their bond, sharing pain and gain that the
other operators couldn't possibly understand. So to hear John complain even a
little…

"Fuck."

Adam wouldn't have been Adam if he hadn't felt slightly guilty. Now that all
the anger was out of his system and he was thinking clearly, he had to admit,
his friend hadn't really deserved such a _methodical_ reminder of who was the
better wrestler. "I guess I overdid it…You okay, bro?"

Base opened an eye. "…Are you?"

Adam gently palmed the back of his battle-brother's head and massaged. "I'm
_really_ sorry, bro." John's hand came up and embraced his brother's head as
well, though even that elicited another wince. Adam had done a thorough job of
working him over.

They touched foreheads and nuzzled. "No no, I had it comin'…" Base grunted.
Then, with a sad, almost needy look, "Forgive me?"

"Dude," Horse chuckled quietly, "You were right, y'know. Of _course_ I forgive
you." They held for a long moment, letting the peace and affection between
them return.

The moment passed. John nodded against him, then let go and rested his head
back, grimacing at yet another stab of pain. "Love you, man."

"Love you too, bro," Adam grinned. "Go on, rest up, let the Crude do its
thing."

He padded quietly out of the room. John was asleep almost before Adam had
closed the door. He chuckled to himself; instant sleep was a skill the whole
SOR had in common, but John and Adam had learned it from the very beginning of
their careers. He shook his head and headed to the showers for a long, cool
soak.

By the time he dripped and towelled his way back into the common room wearing
only his ranger shorts, the rest of the guys were on the couch enjoying
another Bad Movie Night in the form of "The Phantom Menace".

"Room for one more on there?" Adam asked them, still toweling his head dry.
The hot-then-cold shower had done much to clear his head, and now he wanted to
relax and meditate with his brothers, as it were. They shifted up and climbed
over each other to make room and he squeezed in, wriggling his arm around
Titan's shoulders to fit until he was finally comfortably part of the pile,
where he sighed happily and watched in silence.

"Y'know, I heard the kid who played Anakin quit acting." Firth said, after a
while. "Apparently this film ruined his career."

"Shit happens." Adam shrugged. "You gotta move on."

"So you're single now, huh?" Blaczynski asked. He flinched as Rebar swatted
the back of his head. "Ow!"

"Yup." Adam shrugged again and repeated himself. "Shit happens." He tried not
to let the comment bother him, and snuggled into Titan a bit more.

They endured the movie a bit longer, before curiosity finally gnawed its way
through Titan's restraint. "That's all you got to say on it? _'Shit happens'?_
Wasn't she, like… your high school sweetheart? You two've been together as
long as I've known you."

Adam sighed and turned where he was sitting slightly. "What you want me to
say?" he asked. "I don't even have it all sorted out in my head right now.
Okay? Maybe I'll talk about it some, maybe I'll figure shit out and move on,
whatever. Right now… yeah. Best I got to say is 'shit happens'."

"Least you sorted fuckin' Baseball out… OWW!!" This time it was Adam's turn to
give Blaczynski a blow upside the head, and this one wasn't the half-hearted
brotherly cuff that Blaczynski managed to attract at least twice a day: it was
an open-palmed clout so hard that _everyone_ flinched.

"What the fuck is wrong with you?" Adam growled. The mood changed instantly -
nobody needed more than that to spot that a line had been crossed, and they
all went tense.

There was an awkward silence as Adam stared Blaczynski down. It wasn't much of
a contest.

"Horse, uh, did you miss the part where Base helped your girl fuck another
fella?" Sikes pointed out tentatively.

Adam snarled and stood up, unceremoniously dumping half the operators on the
floor, and seared the lot of them with a dark glare. "Oh, noooo, I spent the
last two hours _breaking_ him because he ate the last of the Eggos!" He
narrowed his eyes, "What business is it of yours anyway? You wanna go a round
on the mat with me too? Think you'd last more than a few seconds? 'Cuz Base
paid the fuckin price already. Him and me? We're cool. And yeah: He kept that
fuckin' secret, and it was the right goddamned thing to do!"

"Woah, woah. Easy brother." Blaczynski held up a hand reassuringly - the other
was still nursing the back of his head. "We're just-"

"You're mad on my behalf. Cool. I get it. _Thank you."_ Adam snapped. "But
he's sorry, I'm sorry, we're both over it, and he was right - I wouldn't
**be** here if he'd told me when he first learned. So lay the _fuck_ offa him
or you'll answer to me, got it? All of you."

One by one, he made eye contact with all of them. Vandenberg and Murray held
it and nodded their approval and agreement - Akiyama, Sikes, Firth and
Blaczynski all blinked, nodded and looked away sheepishly.

Adam nodded and relaxed, and tiredness - a deep, spiritual fatigue that he'd
been holding back all day - hit him like a rock slide. He sighed, suddenly
realising just how much he needed some alone time. "Fuck. Sorry. Y'all…enjoy
the movie, guys. Imma go to bed now."

"…'Night."

"'Night."

Adam thumped his way back to his room, grumbling quietly to himself. There
were photos on his desk when he got there, real ink-on-paper prints. They were
an anachronistic relic, but still reckoned by purists to be the best way to
immortalize a memory, and Adam was inclined to agree. Ava had taken this set
years ago, posing raunchily for him in one of his old T-shirts and nothing
else… and eventually not even that.

He sat on his steel-beam bed and studied them carefully, one by one. The bed
creaked loudly by way of greeting, a familiar and weirdly comforting sound in
his personal world that entirely failed to shake him out of his fugue. The
photos were profoundly and painfully erotic.

He considered ripping them up.

Instead, very carefully, he took a wooden box out of his locker that his dad
had given him for his birthday, slipped the photos into the very bottom of it,
and buried the box at the bottom of his "storage" duffle bag, wondering and
doubting if he would ever look at them again. He neatly packed the bag away,
tugged his shorts off, and rolled onto his complaining bunk, determined not to
let the prickling at the corner of his eyes become anything more.

He stared at the ceiling instead, and of all the photos he'd stuck up there -
from Basic, from PJ training, from Folctha and from everywhere else he'd been
and all the people he'd met - his eyes alighted on one from school. He was in
the middle, young and wiry and shaggy-haired, flanked on either side by Sara
and Ava with his arms round their waists. All grinning at the camera.

He rolled on his side and, at length, fell asleep on a soaking wet pillow.

**Date Point: 10y3m3w5d AV**  
**Vancouver General Hospital, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Allison Buehler_**

Every so often, Allison amazed herself with just how much she could read in
some fairly subtle gestures and expressions. She no sooner had to walk into
Xiu's room than she spotted the quiet desperation on Mrs. Chang's face as she
rattled away without pause to her long-lost daughter, nor the mostly-concealed
discomfort and desire to be elsewhere on Wei's.

Xiu's expression was not in any way subtle. Quite the reverse, when she
glanced up to see Allison leaning against the door frame, the look Allison
received said _'I love my family and I'm so glad to see them again but_
**_please_** _save me from them.'_

Allison couldn't blame her. Ever since Xiu had woken up, she'd been the target
of relentless attention from her doctors and nurses, and then an undammed
torrent of familial affection, which had to be _weird_. Having a brother who
was, in terms of date of birth, a few years her junior and yet was slightly
older in terms of actual time experienced…

Allison couldn't picture it. She was having a hard enough time adjusting to
the changes in pop culture. The music on the radio, the references to
technology and websites that hadn't been around the last time she'd visited
Earth, movies and TV series and actors, politicians. She hadn't ever even
_heard_ of the President.

All of that was small beer next to Xiu's reunion with parents who were well
into their sixties, and as for Julian…

Julian had taken the news of his grandfather's passing very hard. Very hard
indeed.

She cleared her throat, gently interrupting the unrelenting babble of Mandarin
that poor Xiu had been enduring. Like mothers everywhere, Mrs. Chang seemed to
be determined to share the minute-to-minute details of every single day that
her absent child had missed.

"Hey…" she smiled at them, trying not to show how much it bothered her that
her voice was still rough and flegmy. "I'm really sorry, but could we borrow
Xiu for a little while?"

Mrs. Chang turned to get her daughter's opinion only to find that Xiu was
already wrangling the blankets out of the way. For their part, Mr. Chang gave
Allison an understanding smile and nod, and Wei seemed to be grateful for a
break from the awkwardness. It had to be equally weird to find that your older
sister was now younger.

Xiu was being adorably stubborn, too. The wheelchair by her bed was
contemptuously ignored, even though the mere act of standing up got her
breathing heavily. If the hand she laid on Allison's shoulder was leaned on a
little more heavily than it might have been if it was purely a gesture of
welcome… well, Allison wasn't about to comment.

Together, they made slow and breathless progress down the hospital corridor.
The human respiratory system had never evolved to handle hard vacuum, and the
damage they had suffered during their brief exposure had beat them round the
head and mugged them. Young and fit though they both were, even gentle
exertion was proving to be a hardship.

They paused for breath on a bench about twenty yards down from Xiu's room
where Xiu managed to fit a smile in between coarse breaths. "Thank you."

"You okay?" Allison took her hand.

"Aside from… feeling like… I got run over… by a tank?" Xiu panted, and tried
to take a deep breath which degenerated into a coughing fit. Allison ran her
free hand up and down Xiu's spine until it stopped. "God… I don't know."

"Too much to take in?"

"…Yeah. How's… Julian?"

"That's why I came to get you. He's pretty beaten up over his Grampa. I
thought he'd feel better to see you."

"I guess.. we both lost family…" Xiu agreed, and hauled herself upright.
Allison didn't really feel ready to move just yet, but she forced herself to
her feet anyway. The rehabilitation physio specialist had been adamant that
she'd recover fairly quickly if she didn't shy away from exercise, even if
that exercise was a long way short of what she was accustomed to achieving.

The second set of benches was another twenty yards down, with only ten more to
go to Julian's room. Xiu sank onto it, perspiring.

"Okay… Why the hell… can't space… be like in the movies?" she asked. "Star
Lord… didn't have to… put up with this shit."

Allison giggled, and that triggered her turn to cough until her throat burned.
It was Xiu's turn to give her a comforting backrub, making a concerned noise
that was a little more Gaoian than human. Allison didn't comment.

"Ugh…"

"Allison…?"

"Yeah?"

"Is this… weird? That… I just got back… to my family… and I'm already… wishing
they'd leave me alone?"

"I doubt it." Allison shrugged. "God knows, I can't wait to get off this
planet ASAP."

Xiu almost looked betrayed. "You're… you wanna leave?"

"I was _happy_ up there, babe." Allison told her. "I was _doing_ something. I
was… you know, I felt like I was achieving stuff. I'm never going to be
anybody on Earth."

Xiu shook her head vociferously. "You don't know that!"

The exclamation prompted another cough, but only the one this time.

"No, babe. I do. I know what I want, and I wanna be a spacegirl." Allison
said. "I wanna go out there and help find people, keep doing what Kirk was
doing, maybe find worlds for people to live on, maybe find… who knows? What's
down here for me that somebody else hasn't already done a million times?"

"A home?" Xiu asked.

"Home is wherever you're happy." Allison retorted. "And now that I've been to
other places…? I don't think that Earth can _ever_ be my home."

Xiu looked so crestfallen that Allison just had to rest a reassuring hand on
her upper back. "Not what you wanted to hear?"

"I don't know…" Xiu shrugged. "Is it stupid that I just… I kind of wrote you
and Julian into my idea of what getting home was going to be like?"

Allison, genuinely touched, managed a giggle that didn't turn into a wheeze.
"Oh… I love you."

Xiu gave her a stunned and confused blink, redness spread across her cheeks
and nose, and Allison realised that this may have been an incautious thing to
say to somebody who'd been starved of positive human interactions for several
years.

She gave Xiu a hug. "Girl…I had more fun with you in one week than I had with
some of my 'best friends' in two years. And I know you're going to need help:
I'm not just gonna _abandon_ you, I promise." She clarified. "I'm here for
you."

"O-oh…" Xiu's blush faded again. "But you're still leaving."

"It's not like I've got a spaceship in my other jacket, babe." Allison pointed
out. "I'm here for the foreseeable. It's just… I know what I want to do with
my life. In the short-term, I'll help you. In the long term…" she glanced
upwards significantly.

Xiu nodded, and wriggled into the hug a bit. "I'm sorry." she said.

"What for?"

"For being… clingy."

Allison gave her a backrub through her bathrobe. "Are you kidding? You're not
clingy."

"I feel like I am."

"You spent… how long, all by yourself?" Allison asked her. "Maybe you're just
too used to that. It's _fine_, babe, I promise."

"You're sure?"

Allison smiled at the top of Xiu's head. "I'm sure. Helps me feel useful."

Xiu pulled back and gave her a questioning look. "Useful?"

"I feel like you need me." Allison told her. "That's… do you?"

Xiu considered the question. "I… I don't want to." she said. "But…"

She looked down the corridor: Wei Chang had just stepped out of her room. He
gave his sister a pathetic little smile and lumbered in the direction of the
vending machines. "Nobody else understands." she finished. "I feel like I've
landed on an alien planet. All these… these _deathworlders."_

"The gravity's wrong, isn't it?" Allison mused.

"No. It's too _right_. And the air feels too rich, and too warm, and I can
taste so much on it." Xiu sighed. "They tell me my immune system's been made
weaker 'cause it's not been challenged often enough…"

A nurse checked in with them on his way down the hall. "Are you two okay?" he
asked.

"We're fine, thanks." Allison reassured him. Beside her, Xiu answered with a
Gaoian-style ducking movement rather than a human nod. The nurse gave her a
strange look and went about his duties.

"…Dammit." Xiu thumped her palm to the side of her head.

"Relax, it's no big deal." Allison told her.

"To _you_ it's not." Xiu shook her head. "Everyone else gives me strange
looks…"

"Fuck 'em." Allison suggested. "So you've picked up a foreign accent in your
travels. If they can't handle that, it's their problem. Not yours."

Xiu glanced down to where her fingernails were flicking absentmindedly against
each other, and wriggled her fingers to stop them. "I guess…"

"…You okay?"

Xiu rubbed at the scars on her arm. "I'm home. That's all that matters. I'm
home." It sounded more like a mantra than conviction.

"Are you?"

For the first time ever, Xiu gave her an irritated glance. It was gone in a
second, replaced by upset, shame and uncertainty. "I _am._" she insisted.

Allison decided not to interrupt whatever she was thinking about, and was
rewarded when, after about twenty seconds of cogitation, Xiu took a deep
breath and gestured helplessly at the whole hospital.

"I'm home… and all Mom wants to talk about is who married who and when the
baby's due and… I used to spend my whole day worrying about accidentally
_killing_ people. Like, if I tripped and fell and reached out to catch myself
or something and pulled their arm off… or worse, if I got found out and the
Hunters came for me."

She sighed and looked up and down the corridor. She frowned at a magazine on
the table next to their bench and picked it up. At a glance it was obvious its
title was something along the lines of _'Charm!'_ and that the front cover was
nothing but long-range photos of oblivious women in bikinis being referred to
by their first names. "Sometimes, here in this hospital?" she began. "It
smells like that Hunter ship did. Just sometimes, it'll catch me off guard
and…"

Allison reached out and tidied some hair out of her face. Xiu studied the
magazine as she did so, her frown deepening.

"Is this what I came back to?" she asked. "Weddings, and how fat some
celebrity is that I never even heard of? Doesn't anybody _care_ that we're at
war? That there's a whole species of monsters out there that wants us all
dead? That _eat people?"_

"This is what you left." Allison told her, avoiding the subject of Hunters and
the Hierarchy for now. "And… hell, if you hadn't been taken, that might be
_you_ on that magazine."

"…That's what I wanted to be." Xiu nodded. "And… maybe I'd feel like I was
doing something, too. Helping people get through their day, entertaining them.
That seems important. But…" She dropped the magazine back on the table.
"There's no way that's happening now, is there?"

"What makes you say that?"

Xiu simply gestured to the scars on her arm and throat, to the white lines
where pulsegun fire had split her lip and eyebrow aboard the Hunter ship as
well as breaking her nose, and to the weathered quality of her skin.

"Xiu, you're beautiful." Allison reassured her.

This earned a shy smile, and Xiu maneuvered some hair out of her face.
"Maybe." She agreed. "But am I Hollywood? And even if I was… Allison, I can't
even go a whole day of pretending to be _human_. What kind of an actor can't
even properly pretend to be her own _species_?"

She looked down at her feet, sighed, and then coughed. "…I was thinking so
much of getting back here, I never thought about what being here would
actually be _like._ What am I going to do here? Now that I'm here… who am I
going to be?"

Allison gave her a squeeze. "You'll have plenty of time." she promised. "Did
the Abductee Repatriation Program get in touch yet?"

"Not yet."

"Chase 'em." Allison ordered her. "They're supposed to give you some money,
support and counselling, careers advice…"

This earned bitter noise. "Right. Careers. I've got a heck of a resume.
Vagrant chef and Gaoian impersonator. Interests: _Gung Fu_ and movies. Special
talents: so fluent in three languages that I sometimes get mixed up and speak
the wrong one."

"You've got skills they can use though, right?"

"Who needs fluency in three languages when we've got translators nowadays?"
Xiu asked. "I'm too old and out of practice to be an acrobat or a ballerina,
I'm too beat up to be an actress…"

"You could still work in Hollywood. Extraterrestrial consultant? Tell the
movies how to get it right? Or, the Global Representative Assembly. You've got
knowledge they could use."

"Maybe…"

"And you're a _great_ cook, babe. And- oh! You could bring Gaoian cuisine to
Earth!"

"Maybe…"

Allison considered her subdued response, then put a reassuring hand on Xiu's
forearm. "Give it time. You'll think of something."

Xiu nodded and reached over with her left hand to squeeze Allison's hand, then
stood up. She swayed as the abrupt motion and her void-damaged lungs combined
to make her head spin, and leaned heavily against the wall for a second to
recover. "Let's… go see Julian."

"…Okay."

Allison took a little more care in standing up, allowed Xiu to thread an arm
through hers, and supported her the rest of the way.

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**  
**Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth.**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

There was an unfamiliar car outside Kevin's new house when he got home. A
black Toyota sedan - completely nondescript and unremarkable, which
immediately gave Kevin a good idea of its driver.

It was a nice house. A two-storey thing in suburbia with delicate brownish
panelling, two garages and enough driveway for a couple of monster trucks. The
local housing association were proving to be a pain in the ass over the exact
strain of grass seed he was allowed to use and how long it had to be and how
well-watered, but the neighbors were nice. They had visited with a welcome
cake on the day he moved in, but their timing had been awful - they'd shown up
while he was wearing a short-sleeve polo shirt that put his tattoo on full
display.

It was not an ambiguous tattoo. While the original ink had just been a simple
black cross, Kevin had spent quite a lot of money over the years modifying it,
starting by covering it with a bisected circle and the word "Rehabilitated".
Later touch-ups, additions and modifications meant that it was now well on its
way to being a full sleeve of deliberately antagonistic antitheistic
sentiment, a physical lashing-out at something he still felt a smouldering
bitterness over.

He was proud of his ink, but it wasn't the best thing to have on show when
meeting new neighbors for the first time and it hadn't gone down well at all.
They'd been the very picture of forced civility, and had excused themselves as
soon as they politely could. He'd been expecting church flyers to start
showing up in his mailbox ever since, but to their credit that hadn't
happened.

Yet.

Darcy confirmed his suspicions by stepping out of her car as he parked,
slipping a phone into her pocket. Kevin hadn't seen her since she'd
effectively hired him, although a more appropriate word might be
"commandeered" or "requisitioned". He was a resource, an asset. "Company
property" as some of the documentation had euphemistically had it.

Her greeting was characteristically terse. "Kevin."

"For future reference, you're welcome to let yourself in." Kevin told her.

"I don't have a key." She replied.

"Like that'd stop you." Kevin retorted, with an amused joking sneer.

Darcy nodded, offering a smile that was, in Kevin's opinion, somewhere towards
the wrong end of tired. "People tend to get _suspicious_ when they see a lock
being picked in broad daylight, though."

Kevin glanced across the street. There was the merest hint of a curtain
dropping back into place as he did so. "Right."

He opened the door and kicked his shoes into the corner. "Coffee?"

Darcy raised an eyebrow at the commercial espresso machine on his counter.
"You take your coffee seriously."

"Sure do." Kevin agreed. "How d'you want it?"

"Cappuccino?"

"Comin' right up."

He watched Darcy out of the corner of his eye as he gurgled and hissed his way
through preparing her drink. She didn't quite flop down onto his couch, but
she did sit heavily, then rubbed her face and rolled her neck.

Kevin gave her a double shot of espresso.

"Thanks for comin' back up here on short notice." he said, handing her the
drink as he sat down. "I know your schedule's gotta be busy…"

"You're allowed to say I look like shit warmed up." Darcy retorted, giving him
a tired but probably honest smile. "This morning I was in Hawaii."

"What the hell were you doing in Hawaii?"

"You don't need to know." she sipped the drink and pulled an almost erotic
face. "Ohhh, that's good coffee."

"Best in Omaha." Kevin promised. "So anyway, I had a couple things needed
clearing up. If I'm any judge of him Byron's subdued mood ain't gonna last
forever, and when he starts pushing the limits again I need the weight of
facts behind me."

"Shoot." Darcy told him. "I'll tell you what I can."

"The big one has to do with somethin' you said when you walked into Byron's
office. About how that ship I was on would of been destroyed if not for its
IFF."

"Yes…?" Darcy sipped her coffee again

"How? I know more-or-less what the Firebirds and the V-class can do, and I
don't reckon they could have jumped in anywhere close enough to destroy it in
seconds. Minutes, sure…"

"Mm." Darcy nodded.

"So either you were exaggerating, in which case that's kind of a problem
because anything could jump in and cloak and we'd be fucked… or you _weren't_,
in which case we have something that can hit a target at least as far out as
the moon within a couple seconds of it arriving."

Darcy ran a pensive tongue through the milk foam on her upper lip, clearly
picking her words with care.

"It's called WERBS." she told him, after some thought.

"Weaponized Einstein-Rosen Bridge System. Thought so." Kevin grinned at her.
"Bartlett's baby grew up then?"

Darcy, for her part, looked more irritated than surprised that he knew. "I
have _got_ to impress on Scotch Creek the need for their top scientists to be
more cautious even around base staff." she sighed. "Let me guess, he was
discussing it with a colleague over one of your - admittedly excellent -
coffees while you were up there?"

"Nope. He just had a bad habit of doodling his equations and stuff on my paper
napkins and then forgetting to take them with him when he left." Kevin
shrugged apologetically. "It's okay, I destroyed them."

"How?"

"Incinerator. He got half his best work done on my bartop, Darcy."

"Did you _understand_ the equations?" she asked.

"Do I _look_ like a theoretical physics prodigy?"

"I don't go by looks, Kevin. _Did you understand the equations?"_

"No. Couldn't hardly read them."

"Okay." She considered her words again, frowning as she took another sip of
her drink. "Yes, WERBS is working. In fact it was about the fourth or fifth
technology to come out of SCERF, right after forcefields, warp drive, stasis
fields and jump engines. We had a working prototype for WERBS before _Pandora_
was even a blueprint."

"And it could of hit EV-8 out at the moon?"

"Could have. Yes. In fact it _'could of'_ hit you as far out as Pluto." Darcy
settled back on the couch and drained half her remaining cappuccino.
"Satisfied?"

"I'd like to know how it works but I'm guessing that I don't-"

"-Need to know." Darcy chorused with him, nodding. "You don't. Hell, **_I_**
don't need to know how it works. I can guess it has something to do with
wormholes, but exactly what and how…"

"Makes sense to keep that one buried if it's our ace in the hole."

"Exactly." Darcy finished her drink. "Anything else?"

"Few minutiae. Some clarifications over my standing orders and what _exactly_
the company means by _'covert action'_."

"Covert action is part of the CIA's mandate, but completely outside of your
area of responsibility right now." Darcy reminded him. "You won't be required
to do anything covert. Your role is purely to… well, to be a bridge."

"I know it's part of the mandate, those introductory documents you sent me
made that clear as mud." Kevin retorted. "Coulda done with being less
euphemistic, for my money."

"Euphemism is useful."

"Right. Can't have it in writing that part of my job might include murdering
Moses Byron." Kevin snarked.

Darcy quirked an eyebrow at him. "Where did you get the impression that
_that's_ on the cards?" she asked. "That's not part of your job description."

"Please. The Company's reason for being is the security of the USA, and by
extension the whole human race." Kevin gave her a patient stare. "Your own
words, right? Well Byron established pretty well with that emergency recall
fiasco that he's a potential liability there. And now you've got _'company
property'_ working in his building…"

"We've got… an ally." Darcy corrected him. "Somebody we trust to be just a
little bit more sensible than Byron and who we _hope_ will serve as a reminder
of just how badly he fucked up. That doesn't mean you'd be entrusted with that
kind of thing. You don't have the training, even _if_ we worked that way."

"You're saying you don't?"

Darcy just gave him a slight smile. "You don't need to know."

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**  
**Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

The doctors had kept them for nearly three weeks. All of them had felt well
enough to be discharged inside two, and Julian had - with apologies -
immediately made a bee-line for his late grandfather's Minnesotan property in
Clearwater county, promising to return as soon as he'd inspected the place and
decided what he was doing with it. Neither of the girls were inclined to
protest.

Allison had collected a sizeable pay package from somewhere, apparently earned
for being on Kirk's crew, and had accepted the duty of flying to England to
track down Amir's family and commiserate with them. She'd arranged to come
back via Minnesota with Julian.

Xiu had… gone home. Ridden home in the back of what _had_ been, on the night
of her abduction, her father's brand new Kia and watching a skyline that had
changed subtly but disturbingly since she had last seen it. She was wearing
the clothes she'd laid out on her bed to change into after ballet practice
before leaving home the last time, just some comfortable black sweats and a
loose long-sleeved Guess top that at least did a decent job of covering her
scars.

Her bedroom was exactly as she had left it. _Exactly_ as she had left it,
right down to some carelessly-discarded underwear tangled up under her office
chair, a half-finished pack of gum on the bedside table, her two favourite
rings resting on the corner of her dresser, and her laptop still open on the
desk. The laptop was by now hopelessly obsolete, but when Xiu prodded the
space bar experimentally, it turned out that it had never actually been
powered off - the fan and hard drive whined into quiet life.

She sat on the corner of the bed and watched it emerge from its long
hibernation, trying to ignore the musty, untouched smell of the room as she
turned the rings over and over in her fingers, not looking at them but still
giving them a thorough tactile evaluation.

It took it a while - ten years of standby mode apparently didn't come to an
end at a moment's notice - but… yes, there was her half-finished essay on Lady
Macbeth, there was her Michelle Yeoh wallpaper, there was the OS update
notification she'd religiously closed every time it dared to show its face…

She reached out and stroked a finger across the trackpad.

It promptly froze and blue-screened.

She closed the lid and toured the rest of the room. Had she _really_ been so
enthusiastic for pink? There was a lot of it. The fairy lights tangled in the
bedstead were a nice touch, but the wall calendar had been purloined from her
friend Ai's family takeaway business and was the kind of tacky cartoon
shengxiao calendar that bore the kitchen's phone number and website, a
declaration like _'Many Happy Fortunes!'_ and a round of advice to _"Wed a
Tiger or Dog but never Rat",_ or whatever.

She sneered at it, and threw it away.

She put the rings on, and then away too went three boy-band posters, a
graveyard of antediluvian incense that she'd been forbidden by her parents'
landlord's fire safety regulations ever from lighting, a venerable McDonald's
paper cup that was only disqualified from being a valuable antique by the fact
that it was a McDonald's paper cup, and the unopened pack of cigarettes she'd
once bought on a dare and then been so worried sick of discovery that she'd
never found the courage to smuggle them out of the house or throw them away.

Finding her rhythm she threw open the windows to try and blast some of the
dust and stale air out, then decided to get rid of the curtains. They were
sun-bleached and faded anyway. She was equally vicious to her wardrobe, going
through _everything_ that didn't fit, all the silly ankle-twisting platform
heels and the clothes she'd sworn that someday would fit again if she just
lost weight regardless of the fact that the problem hadn't been weight but age
and height.

Most of the survivors were then thrown out on the principle that they were
wildly out of fashion, or had just never looked that good anyway. All the
clothing went into a pile she mentally labelled "charity".

She was left with a handful of simple t-shirts, a couple of good pairs of
jeans, one pair each of flats, running shoes and kitten-heeled calf boots,
some sportswear, and three bras that were, while generous enough to
accommodate her teenage self's insecure padding-out, not actually oversized.

The laptop turned out to have given its swansong, and was now thoroughly dead.
She considered asking Wei if he could resurrect it, but then decided against
it - the last thing she needed was her older younger brother performing
digital necromancy on her blog posts and browser history, and in any case the
machine was so haplessly dated that she'd probably struggle to achieve half
the things a modern Internet user wanted to do.

Out went the pink bedclothes, out went a sad deflated soccer ball, out went so
much stale makeup that she couldn't have worn it all if she'd spent every day
of her absent years painted up like a hooker. Out went more stuffed toys than
a sapient being had any right to even know existed. She took apart the flat-
pack furniture and stowed it under the bed and in the back of the closet.

She tested all of the progress she'd made on rehabilitating her abused lungs
in spinning around the room like an efficiently ruthless tornado until it was
gone. All of it. Every last little thing that wasn't _hers,_ thrown out,
dusted or vacuumed until she was down only to the things that she cared to
keep.

This left her with a bare, cold and almost undecorated room to stare at, its
former clutter hinted at only by unfaded patches of carpet and wallpaper.
Other than that, she had the two rings she was now wearing, the fairy lights
on the bedstead and that was about it.

She threw the lights out too when they turned out to be broken.

Only once she was standing alone in the middle of an empty floor-space did she
finally find room in her head to think about what she'd just done and
appreciate the full absurdity of it. She took a deep breath, produced a
helpless arm-flapping shrug that clapped her hands once against her thighs,
and issued something that was _nearly_ a laugh.

"…Welcome home, Xiu."

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**  
**IDF Checkpoint, Qalqilya, the West Bank.**

**_Corporal Moshe Harel_**

"Uh, Moshe?"

"Yeah?"

"That white van you didn't like the look of isn't moving…"

Corporal Harel wasn't the only one who looked up and scrutinized the van in
question, his attention ratcheting up a gear. Tensions were running high -
they were always running high - and the last thing they needed right now was a
suspicious vehicle. The way the van (a venerable Toyota) had parked a good
long way down the road from the checkpoint, not even in the shade of the trees
or anything, and hadn't moved since was definitely troubling.

"How long?"

"Not in ten minutes. I don't see anyone inside…"

"Son of a bitch…" Moshe swore. "We can't ignore that…"

His buddies nodded and checked their SMGs. Even if the driver floored it right
now, the van would have to navigate a slalom of concrete dividers to approach
the checkpoint, and would do so under fire from all sides by heavy weaponry.
An ordinary, elderly Toyota van wouldn't make it a fraction of the way - the
first shots would go right through the engine.

"Radiological?"

"Nothing I can detect."

Harel grabbed his binoculars and aimed them at the van. Between the heat haze
and the sun reflecting off the glass, it was hard to be certain, but it
certainly didn't look like there was anybody sitting in there. There might
have been a slight darkening, but that could equally be the headrest, or the
van's own shadow.

"Did we see anybody get out?"

"Running the tape back now… No, nobody got out of it. Not that I can see,
anyway."

"That van's in full sunlight and the windows are up. It must be cooking in
there!"

"All I know is, the camera didn't see anybody."

Harel considered his options, swiftly narrowing them down to a clear course of
action. "Lock it down. Close the road right now."

Everyone leapt into action, acutely aware that their safety and everyone
else's hinged on doing their jobs right. Within seconds, the checkpoint was
closed.

As soon as they were, Harel would have liked to breath a little easier. That
was one threat dealt with. Instead, he licked the inside of his dry mouth and
moved on to the next bit. "Get the 'bot up."

"Yes corporal."

The 'bot was summoned and bounced its way across the scorching asphalt,
fetching up right underneath the van's passenger side window. Harel watched
over its operator's shoulder, expecting at any second for the van to suddenly
accelerate, or explode, or for armed men to surge out the back. Even with
their huge advantage in terms of firepower and positioning, even with the van
being so far away, none of those options were at all desirable.

Even when the 'bot cranked itself up onto the ends of its treads and extended
its camera as high as it would go so as to look down into the footwell, there
was no sign of a driver, nor of any kind of trap rigged up to the doors.

"…Check the back, Stolarz." Harel ordered. The bot dropped back onto the
asphalt and scooted under the van where it deployed millimetre RADAR to get a
good look inside.

"Nobody in the back, Corporal." Stolarz finally announced, though he tapped an
object on his screen. "But that looks mean, whatever it is."

"Uh… Corporal?

Private Wexler's tone of voice was NOT one that Harel wanted to hear on a
radiological sensor operator. "Yes?"

Wexler cleared his throat. "Radiological alarm, Moshe."

Harel looked back at the van as Stolarz backed the 'bot off a bit, as if that
would do anything. "This," he decided "is starting to look way above our pay
grade."

They called EOD, who quickly called in somebody MUCH higher up. The whole town
was on lockdown within minutes as IDF vehicles rolled in by the hundred, and
Harel's checkpoint had to spend the rest of the day turning back civilian
traffic and offering no comment for the cameras. All the while, the cluster of
people around the van got larger and more grim-looking.

The sun was going down by the time they finally gave an all-clear and loaded
something from the back of the van into an IDF truck, which vanished back over
the Armistice Agreement Line under ridiculously heavy escort.

From the road, nobody could have seen what it was. From his vantage point,
however, Harel got a good look, and promptly wished he hadn't. It was covered
in bright yellow radiation hazard stickers, labelled in both English and Urdu,
and had borne the white crescent and star of the Pakistani flag.

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**  
**CIA Chicago office, Illinois, USA, Earth**

**_Darcy_**

"Welcome back. How's our new asset at Byron Group?"

Darcy didn't need to fake a tired smile for Jake, her usual work partner. She
really had been in Honolulu less than twenty hours ago, and that much travel
was guaranteed to leave her rumpled and drained even though she was thoroughly
used to it. Between sleeping most of the flight and catching a power nap in
the car outside Jenkins' house she was perfectly rested, but it was still
getting late in the day by her personal clock.

Jake would have seen through even her best false smile anyway. "He's gonna be
a pleasure to work with." she said, honestly. "All carrot, no stick, all the
way, just you watch."

"That easy, huh?" Jake asked. He stood from his desk and set about making her
a cup of tea, exactly what she needed. She hadn't been flattering Jenkins
about the quality of his coffee - it genuinely was superb - but Darcy had
always preferred a good jasmine tea. Just one of the things that made Jake
such a good partner.

"Oh yeah. He's a classic misanthrope. Pretty sure he thinks the neighbors are
all waiting for their chance to ram a Bible down his throat. Throw in a white
knight streak, and…" she trailed off meaningfully.

"Likes to feel like he's rescuing a worthy damsel, huh?" Jake noted. He
dropped a little jasmine tea pearl into the teapot for her and covered it in
newly boiled water.

"Oh yeah. Strong masculine streak there." Darcy watched in pleasurable
anticipation as the hot water made the pearl break open and unfold into a
flowered frond. "He's no idiot though. Seduction's not on the cards for a
second, he'd see through it instantly. But all I need to do is play to type
for him and he'll be extremely useful."

Jake set the teapot and a cup down for her and returned to his desk while
Darcy set about summarizing her trip to Omaha for their records.

"Any surprises?" he asked.

"Nothing _surprising_ exactly, no. He knew what the WERBS acronym stands for,
but he didn't know the specifics and he didn't push. Figure if we ever have to
throw him a bone there, the cover about having nukes ready to jump will do
just fine."

"Good. Last thing we need right now is any more potential holes in that one."
Jake nodded. "Sounds like a good source."

Darcy took a grateful sip of her tea "Almost perfect. He's an honest man
underneath the asshole exterior, so we don't need to establish any real
control over him. Just… give 'im the sales pitch and let him motivate himself
the rest of the way. I like him."

"You always did have a thing for prickly guys with soft centers."

"Guilty."

They worked in comfortable silence for a few minutes. Darcy finished her notes
and her tea, and was considering wrapping it up for the day and sleeping in
her own bed for a change when Jake sat back in his chair, arms folded, and
frowned at the screen.

"Problem?" She asked.

"Could be." his jaw worked side-to-side as he considered what he was reading.
"One of those stolen Pakistani nukes just showed up…"

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**

**Clan Whitecrest personal transport** **_"Springing Ember",_** **Cimbrean System, The Far Reaches.**

**_Regaari_**

Sensing and communicating with ships that were travelling at Superluminal
speeds had been a serious challenge and concern before the Corti had figured
out the algorithms for detecting and modulating the "wake" every ship created
as it stretched and contracted spacetime around itself. The expansion and
contraction of spacetime being unbound by the speed of light, the system made
for an efficient and cheap means of FTL communication, with only the slight
drawback that it had an effective range of no more than about a day's travel
at one kilolight. Not even enough for communication even between two
relatively close star systems, and no _inhabited_ systems were that close
together anyway.

Still, it was good enough for ships in the same system to see and talk to one
another. In the past, once a ship had departed, it would outrun any photons
sent after it, and so talking to it was simply impossible unless you got in a
faster ship, overtook it, and dropped a transmission in its path.

Nowadays…

"_Unidentified vessel, this is HMS Violent patrolling Cimbrean local space.
Cease your approach and identify, over._"

Regaari ordered the ship down to sublight at once. "_Violent_, Gaoian
transport '_Springing Ember'_, piloted by Officer Regaari of Clan Whitecrest,
on a diplomatic mission. Ceasing approach."

As he did so, Ayma poked her head out of the ship's ablutions chamber, combing
her fur to clean out her dust-bath. "We've arrived?" she asked.

"We were just intercepted by one of the human ships. The _Violent._"

Ayma's ears quirked and she grimaced. _" 'Violent'?"_ she asked. "**_Just_**
_'Violent'?_ What an ugly name for a ship."

"Unsubtle, isn't it?" Regaari agreed, though privately he felt that the name
was appropriately bellicose for a warship. Why mask its nature behind poetic
imagery?

A minute later, _Violent_ hit sublight at a relative stop a few hundred
kilometres away. His transport only registered its presence by the friendly
identity signals it was broadcasting: Without those, it would have been all
but invisible. No radar signature, with a shape and albedo that sent every
sensor they had skipping off without trace and zero visible heat - Regaari
knew that it would be radiating all of its heat in a coherent beam back
towards the nearest star. Only his experimental gravimetric sensors, designed
to counter Hunter cloaking devices, told him that _something_ was there, and
they were still far too imprecise to narrow down the exact location of
_Violent_'s mass to within a radius better than thirty kilometers.

"_Springing Ember, please disable all electronic security and submit to a
database scan._"

"They really _are_ paranoid." Ayma commented.

"I heard a saying of theirs once. '_It's not paranoia if-'_"

"'_-If they really are out to get you.'_" Ayma finished. "Yes. But they can
plainly _see_ that we are not Hunters, can't they?"

"Well, like you said: They _are_ paranoid." Regaari snorted, dropping the
firewalls.

He watched the alerts unfold as _Violent_'s technicians first infiltrated,
then thoroughly ransacked the _Springing Ember_'s computer. Fortunately, the
ship wasn't carrying any clan secrets - he'd made completely sure of that
before leaving.

Two more contacts appeared on his sensors as the intrusion was withdrawn and
he was sent an all-clear to re-establish his firewall. These were small
compared to his transport and the human destroyer, but large relative to most
starfighters. Firebirds.

"_Springing Ember, proceed to orbit above the fifth planet of this system and
await further instructions."_

Cimbrean-5 was the outermost of the system's rocky worlds, and the only one
outside the system protection field. It was classified as a "violent" world -
a planet far too cold for sapient habitation where it rained liquid methane
into oceans of liquid methane under hateful skies full of methane clouds,
where pressure differentials in its thick, cryogenic atmosphere could pick up
razor shards of rock-hard water ice and carry them around the globe at
hundreds of miles an hour.

Under the watchful eye of HMS _Violent_ and the two escorts, they sat
restlessly and watched the lightning flashes in the planet's upper atmosphere
for nearly an hour before a fourth contact set alarms wailing on their
proximity sensors as it appeared within only twenty kilometres or so, and well
outside of _Violent_'s firing solution.

HMS _Caledonia_. He recognised it instantly. No sooner had it jumped in than
he spotted the change in its sensor signature as it opened its bay door.

Regaari clipped on an earpiece and headed for the starboard airlock. Ayma cast
around for something to do, clean up or tidy and, finding nothing, settled for
lowering herself onto a couch and fidgeting nervously at her claws.

The _Springing Ember_'s sensors picked up the barest hint of a tiny warp drive
pulsing, and Regaari inclined his head to listen as a new voice came on the
communicator.

_"Springing Ember,_ boarding party from HMS _Caledonia_ requests permission to
come aboard."

"Permission granted, starboard airlock" he told them. "Is that you, Rebar?"

"_Sure is, Dexter. They've got us doing marine shit. Starboard airlock."_

There were three total - Rebar, Blaczynski and Baseball, who squeezed into the
lock, then through into the ship interior. Only when the lock was fully cycled
did they de-mask, all grinning and happy to see him. If he wasn't totally
familiar with human body language by now, it would have been terrorizing to
see that many bared teeth. For her part, Ayma retreated a little, and Regaari
couldn't blame her - the three men smelled _powerfully_ male, almost
overwhelmingly so.

"Not that I am not happy to see you…" Regaari began, greeting the three men
with his best approximation of the elaborate and forceful handshake they'd
taught him "But I'm quite capable of docking and landing this ship myself."

"Security's being tightened up." Blaczynski commented. "Hopefully we'll be
able to brief you on why sometime, but right now, rules say I have to fly this
thing for you."

Regaari stood aside and gestured to the control room. In keeping with Gaoian
architecture, it was at the _back_ of the ship, immediately in front of the
main engines. There was, after all, no good logical reason for the pilot to
sit at the front of the ship when he would be flying by sensor readings and
information displays anyway. Meanwhile the sleeping quarters could be mounted
in the front of the ship, as far from the power core and main kinetic
thrusters as possible and therefore quieter and calmer.

"And for that you need three?" he asked.

"No such thing as too careful, bro." Baseball told him. "This a friend of
yours?"

"Ah, yes…"

Base touched his forehead, which Regaari guessed was a respectful gesture.
"Pardon me, ma'am. I need to scan you for hazards and contraband." he
declared.

Ayma shot a questioning look at Regaari, who ducked his head to reassure her.
This was just standard human caution. She spread her arms and straightened up.
"Go ahead."

"Thank you, ma'am." Base flipped a small grey oblong out of a pouch on his
belt and delicately pressed it to Ayma's head. Regaari couldn't imagine why,
but moments later the screen on its back lit, and Baseball relaxed. "Sorry
about that."

"It was no bother…" Ayma reassured him, politely.

"So… yes." Regaari stepped forward. "Baseball, Rebar, Starfall, this is Ayma…"

"Ahh, so _that's_ what this is about. Your friend Zoo." Baseball snapped his
fingers, the effect muffled slightly by his spacesuit's glove.

"Shoo." Ayma corrected him.

"_Xiu._" Rebar corrected them both.

"Like you hadn't guessed." Regaari noted.

The humans chuckled again, and Rebar looked around the _Springing Ember'_s
interior. "Nice ship."

"Whitecrest personal transport. One of the newest models. Designed to deliver
an individual or small group on relatively short journeys, very quickly."

"Surely the faster it is the further it goes?" Rebar asked.

"We… borrowed some ideas from you" Regaari told him. "Using capacitors to
power the engines gives much better speed but limits the range. That was
deemed an acceptable trade, seeing as it's intended for rapid travel within
our territory, between Gao, Gorai and the new colony at Guen Ha. Cimbrean,
fortunately, is not that far from Gorai."

"So this thing runs on solar power?" Blaczynski asked, settling into the
pilot's couch.

"Usually, it recharges off its own generator. We wanted to install a quantum
core plant but… our versions of those are bulky and not very efficient yet, so
we went with old-fashioned fusion. It can recharge via its shields if it has
to though, yes."

Blaczynski nodded, and checked in with _Caledonia_, _Violent_ and the two
Firebirds to confirm that the ship now had a human pilot and that all life
forms on board were accounted-for. "Edda Two, go for slave jump, whenever
you're ready."

"Slave ju-"

The cryogenic grey storms of Cimbrean-5 vanished. In an eyeblink the planet
Cimbrean - the inhabited one, all blues and greens and white - replaced it
below them and _much_ larger.

"-mp? Oh. Impressive."

"Nice and secure. Only way in is directly under our guns and with our
permission." Blaczynski waved a hand through the ship's controls, a little
tentatively but clearly knowing what he intended to do and more or less how to
achieve it. He was hindered a little by not being able to read Gaoian, but the
interface was designed to be clear and intuitive. Selecting the Folctha
colony's landing beacon and ordering the _Springing Ember_ to land at that
beacon took him only a minimum of trial and error.

"So, yeah. Zoo."

"_Shoo._"

**_"Xiu."_**

"In my defense, my mouth is the wrong shape to pronounce that." Regaari
pointed out. "I don't know what Baseball's excuse is."

"She was in a bad way, bro." Baseball told him, aiming a friendly obscene
gesticulation by way of reply. "I don't know what the fuck happened to them
exactly, but when we pulled them out of that liferaft they were dying from
recent vacuum exposure."

Ayma keened slightly and Regaari barely restrained the impulse himself: The
thought was distressing.

"Hey, hey, it's fine!" Baseball hurried to reassure them. "Horse ain't just a
pretty face, he's a damn good medic too. She's back on Earth now. Last I
heard, she's doing just fine."

"Major Powell should know more." Blaczynski added. He was watching the
_Springing Ember'_s instruments for any sign of trouble, even though the ship
was completely competent at landing itself. Already, their re-entry was raging
a burnt orange around the edges of their forcefield.

"Good, because it's him that we're here to see." Regaari told them. "Pleasant
as it is to see you again, this is _important_, both personally and
politically."

"Dude, we're on the job too." Rebar reassured him. "But you're cool to hang
out once your business is done? Movie night?"

"That would be nice."

"Politically?" Blaczynski asked.

"It's all…"

Ayma interrupted him. "Shoo is a Female."

The humans blinked at one another, nonplussed. "Well, yeah…" Baseball agreed,
in a tone which suggested that this fact could not possibly be lost on them.

"I mean a _Female_." Ayma stressed, patiently. "A member of the C_lan_ of
Females. Legally speaking, she's a Gaoian."

"To hell with _'legally speaking'_." Rebar scoffed. "Legally speaking, less
than ten years ago _we_ were non-sapient indigenous fauna."

"Don't be so quick to dismiss legal technicalities." Regaari warned him. "By
making her legally a Gaoian, the Females made her legally sapient, and that
afforded her all the rights and protections guaranteed by the Dominion
charter. One technicality used to defeat another, you see?"

"Forgive us if we're not exactly gonna start cheerleading for the Dominion
there, southpaw." Rebar commented.

"If you ever see _me_ waving those pompoms myself, then clearly I'll have
taken leave of my senses and as my friends I hope you would shoot me." Regaari
retorted, doing his best to imitate a grin. It seemed to work, as the human
chuckled, and Ayma chittered along with them.

"Atmospheric flight." Blaczynski interjected.

"-But he makes a valid point." Ayma told them. "Irritating as legal
technicalities might be, they're never going to go away. Rather than railing
against them and achieving nothing, it's better to pick them up and use them
as weapons."

"Sticks in the craw, but she's right…" Rebar mused, then frowned at something
forward in the ship and edged through the doorway past Baseball to
investigate. "What's this thing?"

"Hmm? Oh, that's the ship's nanofactory." Regaari told him.

"What's it do?"

"Builds things. You call up a blueprint and it assembles the desired object
from raw materials."

"Like a 3D Printer?" Blaczynski asked.

"In the same way that this ship's short-range FTL comms are like a telephone,
yes." Regaari agreed. "This is a small one. Clothing, basic tools, replacement
parts for the ship… larger ones can assemble vehicles, prefabricated modules
that can be assembled into cheap buildings, even other nanofactories."

"Brother," Baseball warned Rebar, in a friendly tone. "You know your techs
won't like it if you go and cream your suit."

Rebar laughed, but continued to study the nanofactory with a rapt expression.
"So, it can build anything?"

"Anything synthetic." Regaari agreed. "No cooked dinners, pharmaceuticals,
complex organic molecules or anything made out of, say, wood or bone, but…
plastics, metals, glass. All you have to do is feed in the materials."

"Could it build something that _could_ make those things?" Rebar asked.

Regaari hesitated. "…You know, I've never thought of that. I suppose it
probably could."

"Dude, we have GOT to get one of these things." Rebar aimed a look at him that
Regaari guessed meant he wanted to ask if they might scavenge the one off his
ship. He chittered.

"Sadly I cannot do that, my friend." he apologised. "Not only would I be
breaking a rather important law, but the Fathers who own this ship would be
upset and in any case, it's an integrated part of the _Springing Ember_'s
fittings."

"It's not a module you can pull out and replace if it breaks?" Rebar frowned
at it again.

"Oh, I could." Regaari said. "It would just ruin the façade. This is a
_diplomatic_ vessel, Rebar. Our military vessels are much more… what's that
word? _Spartan_. Besides, as I said, sharing nanofactory technology with a
species that does not yet have it is gravely illegal. This device could cause
a traumatic economic upheaval for your whole species and delay your
advancement. I assume you don't want that."

"Right." It seemed that Rebar would have liked to argue for a second, but
instead he stood up, sighed longingly at the nanofactory, then a thought
struck him. "Dude! Do you mind if I make something?"

Regaari quirked his head, a gesture analogous to a human shrug. "I don't
mind." he said. "Hmmm. Ship. Make a… make a diagnostic sensor."

The ship chimed acknowledgement and Rebar took a step back as the 'forge built
up to operational power with an edge-of-hearing keen of capacitors charging
before….

**_THUMP._**

Modern Gaoian nanofactories - and this was one of the latest and most advanced
models - could do in a few seconds what their primitive forebears had needed
minutes to do. Admittedly, the built in accelerated-time fields helped there,
but the result was that within five seconds of his issuing the order, the
transparent door folded down and a pristine new engineering scanner was pushed
onto the delivery tray.

Baseball grunted a surprised laugh. "Shit!"

"_Damn,_ Dexter…" Rebar picked up the scanner delicately, as if he feared it
might be hot, or would disintegrate at his mere touch.

"Give it a try." Regaari told him. Rebar eagerly examined the little device,
figured out how to turn it on, and aimed it at a nearby wall. Volumetric
displays began to give him a detailed breakdown of the wall's composition,
internal structure, the conduits and systems running behind it, microscopic
work fractures in the metal hull behind it, and the action of the ship's
internal damage control forcefield constantly sweeping over and repairing that
wear and tear. His jaw dropped, and he set about waving his new toy at every
system and fitting he could find.

"Final approach!" Blaczynski announced some minutes later, as Rebar was making
enthusiastic noises about the infra-hull integrated crystal circuitry. "His
pants still dry, Base?"

"Fifty-fifty." Baseball grinned.

Regaari quirked his ears amusedly as the three of them settled into a round of
friendly insults and ambled over to where Ayma was standing alone by one of
the floor-to-ceiling windows that ringed the _Springing Ember_'s lounge area.
She'd retreated there probably as much to get away from the masculine aroma
pervading the air around the SOR men as to try and compose her thoughts, he
guessed.

"They're very… male." she whispered.

"Shoo was very female." Regaari countered. "Similar pheromones."

"It's a good thing I've seen human movies though. That large one - Baseball?"

The man in question glanced in their direction on hearing his name, then
politely looked away again.

"Yes?" Regaari asked.

"If I didn't already know about _'ethnicity'_, his skin colour would have come
as a surprise."

"Be careful." Regaari cautioned. "Humans can be quite offended by observations
like that."

"Oh… he can't hear us, can he?" Ayma asked, glancing at him.

"You two talkin' about me?" Base asked. "Cause I don't speak Gaoian."

"Sorry." Regaari told him.

"Nada. Just wonderin'."

"You're very… large." Ayma suggested. "It's a little intimidating."

"Not much I can do 'bout that." Base shrugged. "But if it helps you feel
better, I'm a medic."

"A… medic? I hadn't anticipated that." Ayma examined him. "Why does a medic
need to be so large?"

"I'm what we call a Protector." Baseball said, going down on one knee to try
and mitigate his bulk. It didn't work. "My job is to get people out of harm's
way and keep them there. Doesn't matter if I have to skydive from orbit to do
it, I go in there, I fix up people who need fixing, and I carry them out. Just
like my buddy Horse did for your boy here."

Ayma glanced at Regaari, who nodded. "Warhorse is shorter." he said. "But
more…" he made an inflating motion his paws and shrugged his own shoulders to
hint at a muscularity that no Gaoian - not even the supremely physical Clan
Stoneback - would ever approach.

"That's my boy." Baseball beamed.

"Uh, ladies and gentlefolk, we're now coming in low over downtown Folctha, if
you look out the port windows you should get a nice view of the river. Local
time is eleven-twenty, and the weather is a gentle sixty-five degrees."
Blaczynski called. "Thank you for flying Air SOR, and please take care when
opening your overhead lockers, as bags and luggage may have shifted during the
flight."

Regaari hadn't landed at Cimbrean last time. _Caledonia_ had warped directly
to Gao to drop off its cargo of survivors from Capitol Station, on the grounds
that the Gaoians were diplomatically better equipped to send them home. He was
curious to see what a human settlement looked like from the air.

Folctha wasn't large, but it _did_ manage to impress him. The layout was equal
parts logical and illogical - clearly at first they had built according to
where the colonists wanted to go, and when the time had come to expand, they
had allowed that early random development to remain and grown out from there
sensibly and methodically.

The humans obviously loved the river, which flowed from a reservoir fed by
artesian aquifers in the grounds of the alien palace that had once stood at
the top of the valley. The buildings along its banks were separated from its
waters by a wide green strip of parkland and trees, and the river itself was
strung with three slender footbridges and a pair of wide, sturdy road bridges.
The advertisements were colourful and pleasant, the construction sites were
neatly organised and full of interesting yellows and blues and the roads,
though wide and capacious, were for now populated more by cyclists and
pedestrians than by larger vehicles.

The _Springing Ember_ circled in low over a walled and forcefielded enclave
that could only be the Alien Quarter, banked to race up the west bank of the
river where relaxing pedestrians shielded their eyes to look up and watch it,
shed its speed over the palace grounds and finally alighted, delicately, on a
concrete circle in the grounds of a fenced base some distance from the town.

"Good landing." he complimented Blaczynski.

"Eh. It was alright." the SOR man's cocky smile said he knew it had been damn
near flawless, but didn't want to make a big deal of it.

"Man. Never thought I'd get to see one of those things up close…" Rebar
chuckled, casting a last longing glance at the nanofactory.

"Don't you have one?"

"Think they're building an experimental one in Germany. It's the size of
_Caledonia_ and they reckon it'll drink about about two hundred megawatts."

Regaari reflected on that. "…Sometimes I forget that you're still a long way
behind us, technologically."

"Dude, it's only been like ten years since first contact." Rebar said. "We've
had warp for… what, eight years? Seven and a half?"

"Yeah, and our CO's banging the chick who flew _Pandora_." Baseball grinned as
they stepped through the airlock.

"Now that's an interesting fookin' thing to hear."

As ever, it was difficult to hear the humour in Powell's bassy voice. You had
to know that gruff and softly-spoken was his ground state of being to spot
that he wasn't remotely annoyed. All three of his men froze. "Wherever did you
hear a rumour like that, Burgess?"

Baseball cleared his throat. "Rumour, sir?"

"My mistake, I must have misheard what you were saying." Powell nodded.
"Incidentally, the sand in the gravball chamber needs raking flat. I've always
fancied it might be fun to turn that into some kind of Zen garden thing. Think
I saw some suitable large rocks over by the gym. Sound like fun?"

Burgess didn't do anything so obvious as deflate, but there was a definite
resigned hint to his "Yes sir."

"Get out of that suit and go play, lad. I'm sure our guests' business is
urgent and I mustn't keep them waiting. I'll be along to see how you're
getting on in a bit."

"Yes sir." Burgess vanished, double-time.

Powell turned to Rebar. "Owt to report?"

"Nice ship. Clean. Pilot's yellow, but his friend's beautifully green."

Regaari blinked in confusion. "we're… what?"

"Uh, sorry. In-joke. I'll explain later." Rebar promised.

"Don't bother." Regaari sighed. "I could study human in-jokes for a decade and
by the time I finished you'd have generated twenty years more."

The humans chuckled. "Shall we go de-suit, major?"

"Go on, lads. Well done. Regaari? And I assume this is Mother Ayma?"

Ayma extended a paw, which the major shook. He seemed to have got the hang of
exactly how much of his prodigious strength he could safely use, and there was
no hesitation in the gesture. "Stainless, I presume."

"Major Owen Powell."

"Thank you for having us."

They ambled away from the _Springing Ember._ "Nice ship." Powell commented.

"It's not mine personally," Regaari told him "it's the clan's. I persuaded
Father Rithu that this trip would be politically advantageous."

"Hope you didn't lie to the old man, Dexter."

"Not deliberately." Regaari shrugged for Powell's benefit. "I would appreciate
if you didn't make me a liar, though."

"Aye, I reckon I might be able to accommodate you there…" the major mused. "Or
rather, Admiral Knight can. Political's a bit above my pay grade."

"If I'm any judge, you know something that the admiral has planned."

"Oh aye?"

"You're as opaque as a window, Powell."

"That so?"

"But commendably stubborn." Regaari conceded.

"You're not exactly Mister Subtle yourself, southpaw." Powell chuckled. "We
pick your friend up and you show up as fast as Gaoianly possible? If you even
fooled Father Whatsisface, I'll be impressed."

Regaari had to admit, he had a point.

"…How is she?" Ayma asked.

Powell stopped walking and turned to face her, thumbs tucked into his belt.
"Something of a local celebrity in Vancouver." he revealed. "Medically, all
I've got for you is what Burgess and Ares told me during the debrief."

"Which is?" Ayma pressed.

"Miss Chang was recovered in the company of two other humans, all suffering
from severe decompression injuries. Apparently they were exposed to hard
vacuum for a few seconds."

Regaari chirruped his astonishment. "And they _survived_?" he asked, scarcely
believing it. Vacuum was death, everyone knew that. He wouldn't have thought
that even _deathworlders_ could survive it.

"Barely." Powell grunted. "All three of them were dying from their injuries.
Lucky for them they got picked up by two very fine young medics aboard a
flying hospital with stasis equipment on board."

"…And?" Ayma squeaked. She was doing her best to stay composed, but Regaari
knew her intimately, and could spot that she was in anguish.

"And they've all since been discharged and are rebuilding their lives.."
Powell said, nodding reassuringly. Both Ayma and Regaari sighed relief. "She
got prompt and expert medical attention, she's young and healthy… Burgess
reckons she should suffer no long term ill health, and he'd know."

"Where was she before that?"

"…Good question." Powell answered, which didn't answer the question at all.

"You must have got the ship's ID off the life raft. What ship was she on?"
Ayma pressed.

"…I can't say."

Regaari studied him. Humans were aliens, their body language was only
tangentially similar to that of Gaoians, and he was still having trouble with
some of their subtleties of tone and language, but he'd learned to trust his
instincts with them. Besides, Powell was a plain-spoken man, and Regaari's
assessment was that he rarely said anything that wasn't _exactly_ what he
meant…

"Do you mean that you don't know, or that you _do_ and you can't tell me?" he
asked, and caught the momentary tic in Powell's eye that suggested he'd scored
a hit.

"…I can't say."

"Ah. So it's the latter."

"Transparent I fookin' might be, but penetrable I'm not, mate."

"You can say much by withholding comment." Regaari pointed out. "There's a
secret here. For her to have turned up in the company of humans means she was
on a human starship… or at least on a starship _allied_ to humans, hmm?"

"By God Holmes, you've cracked the case." Powell snarked.

Regaari ignored the wise-crack. "Life raft and vacuum exposure means that the
ship was destroyed. Which means…"

Ayma finished the thought for him. "She found Kirk." she said. "Or Kirk found
her."

Powell didn't need to say a thing. He simply spun and directed an incredulous
stare at Ayma, then at Regaari. When Regaari folded his arms and pricked his
ears up, it dawned on Powell that he couldn't have spoken a clearer
confirmation, and he swore violently, furious with himself.

"_Shit."_ He gritted his teeth thoughtfully at nothing for a second, then
exhaled resignedly. "Okay. I need to know _exactly_ how much you two know
about Kirk."

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**

**Finchley, London, England, Earth**

**_Ava Rios._**

Sean's uncle Simon turned out to be an older and more weathered clone of his
nephew. He had the same long, straight nose, the same wavy dark hair, the same
long and slender frame. If not for a few wrinkles, the tan and a dusting of
white hairs, the two could have stood side by side and been hard to tell
apart.

He also had a keen and critical eye, which he was running over Ava's online
portfolio.

"I like this one. You timed it perfectly on his exhalation, it really feels
cold… This one, you could have put the subject a little off-center, get more
of the tree in there, you see?"

Ava just nodded and paid attention, answered questions when they were asked.
It was interesting feedback - she'd had so many people tell her how great her
photos were, it was a genuine pleasure to have somebody go through them with a
fine comb and pick on the tiny imperfections.

When he reached the end of the album, Simon handed her tablet back to her and
nodded, smiling gently. "Sean was right, you're good."

"Told you." Sean commented, from where he was sprawled on the couch playing an
old game, something with airships and muzzle-loading rifles.

"So, what does that mean?" Ava pressed.

Simon stroked his chin thoughtfully. "You've come along at a good time." he
said. "The guy I usually work with is off sick and will be for the foreseeable
future, so I do _need_ a photographer…" he tapped his chin, frowning. "Look…
How do you feel about the Middle East?"

"How do you mean?" Ava asked him.

"Would you be, uh, scared to go there?" Simon clarified.

"Not enough to stop me if that's where the work is." she shrugged. "I dunno.
You've got to take care wherever you go, right? Just because you have to take
a little _more_ care in some places than others…"

"A lot more care." Simon corrected her.

"Fine, a lot more." Ava agreed. "But there's no such thing as safe anyway."

"True." Simon agreed. "So…?"

"So… yeah. I wouldn't have a problem going there provided I had somebody to
show me the ropes."

"Hmmm…"

Simon fetched a tablet from his bag and signed into Google Maps. Within
seconds, he'd summoned a sandy oblong of land sandwiched between Africa and
Asia.

"So… this down here is Saudi Arabia." he said, tapping it.

"Right." Ava nodded, taking note of the countries around it for good measure.

"Now, the Saudi royal family are still richer than Croesus, but part of the
reason for that is that ten years ago they did something _very_ sensible, and
sold every oil-based asset they had. Seriously, VI Day happened, and before
we'd even really got our heads round aliens on the telly, the Al-Sauds had
ditched every penny they had in oil and invested it elsewhere. At the time,
people thought they were crazy, they even made a loss on some of those sales."

He opened a new tab. "Time, however, has proven just how bloody smart a move
that was. When alien technology put the final touches on fusion and widespread
cheap solar power, a hole appeared in the oil market, and the value per
barrel's been in decline for eight years in a row now."

Ava nodded her understanding. "But Saudi Arabia itself didn't do so well." She
noted.

"Exactly." Simon nodded. "The country's economy was still founded in oil.
Declining oil industry means declining employment, declining wages, and all
the people who made a living selling goods and services to the oil industry
and its workers, they all started to lose jobs and money too, their labour
pool of foreign workers dried up… Throw in some safety cock-ups around the
Hajj badly hurting their tourism industry, and Saudi Arabia's been in a
recession for five years now."

"Surely we're never going to be rid of oil entirely?" Sean asked.

"Not plastics." Ava agreed. "But gasoline? The market for that's going to be a
fraction of what it used to be when it finally settles."

"And there's the problem." Simon continued. "Saudi Arabia just isn't as rich
as it used to be. In fact it's imploding. They've already had to cut spending
in all sorts of ways. Artificial reefs and peninsula projects have been
abandoned, cities in the desert have shrunk because they just couldn't afford
the water… and military spending has been slashed."

"Oh boy." Ava sighed, realising where this was going. "The Caliphate."

"The so-called Caliphate," Simon gently corrected her. "In what used to be
Syria. Yes. They've had their eye on Mecca and Medina for years: the Masjid
al-Haram and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi are two of the three most sacred places in
Sunni Islam. If the Caliphate were to annexe those cities, it'd be a major
propaganda victory for them. Recruitment would boom, and it's high enough
already."

"Where's the third?" Sean asked.

"Jerusalem." Simon told him. "But the Israelis are a much tougher nut than the
Saudis, and the Palestinians are… never mind. Point is, they don't have a shot
at Jerusalem any time soon. But they _might_ have a shot at Mecca and Medina
if not for…"

He zoomed the map out a bit. "…Pakistan. Like I said, Saudi Arabia's
collapsing, and because nobody in the region wants that they've been
channeling aid and supplies to the Saudis for years, much to Iran and Russia's
alarm. In Pakistan's case, a large part of that aid has been military - just
like the Saudis and the so-called Caliphate, Pakistan are Sunni too, and
they're keen _not_ to see the holy cities fall into Caliphate hands. So,
they've been loaning all sorts of things: Training, special forces, a warship
or two… and of course their air force can reach anywhere in the region just
fine."

"Okay…?" Sean asked, examining the map. Simon smiled grimly, and closed the
app to open a folder full of pictures instead - two ships at harbour, dimly
visible through extreme range and heat haze.

"This is the MV _Nasarpur_, and berthed next to it is the PNS _Zulfiquar_, one
of the Pakistan Navy's frigates. _Nasarpur_'s a merchant vessel, a light
freighter. About two months ago she left Karachi bound for Jeddah Seaport.
When she got there though, she was _immediately_ locked down by the Pakistani
military. She didn't load or offload anything, and three days later she sailed
straight back to Karachi, without explanation."

"Any idea why?" Sean asked.

"Oh, rumours were flying thick and fast." Simon told him. "None of them were
very credible… Not even the kind of rags who run headlines like _'The Corti
abducted my cat!_" or whatever were touching them. That is, right up until
some friends of mine were fed a tip that an Israeli checkpoint intercepted a
nuke covered in Pakistan flags."

"A nuke?!" Sean exclaimed.

Ava was similarly dismayed. "You're kidding."

"I wish I was." Simon shook his head.

"Okay…" Ava re-opened the map and considered it some more. "Where's Iran in
all this?"

"Good question. One of the two questions _we_ are going to be answering, in
fact."

"Oh, bloody lovely." Sean groused. "You plan on leading us into a powder keg
where cities could maybe blow up?"

"_Story of my life_…" Ava commented, _sotto voce_. Neither man heard her.
"What's the other question?"

Simon sat down, resting his elbows on his knees. "That nuke showing up in the
West Bank makes absolutely no sense at all." he said. "_Nobody_ benefits from
that. If they'd successfully smuggled it over the border and then detonated
it… then what? Like I said, Jerusalem - and specifically the Al-Aqsa Mosque -
is the third holiest site in Islam. Destroying it would be only marginally
less blasphemous than destroying the Kaaba, or the Mosque of the Prophet."

"Set it off elsewhere in Israel" he continued "and they'd just bring down the
angry hammer of the West. Either way, there's no incentive, so that nuke being
where it was is just… bizarre. In fact I'm having trouble figuring out what
the nukes are going to be useful for _anywhere_. Unless whoever took them
truly are crazy enough to believe that they could detonate them and actually
survive or even defeat the retaliation."

"Unless just setting them off is the whole objective." Sean pointed out. "And
the whole point is martyrdom."

"Or unless blasphemy is the whole point." Ava added. "Some anti-Muslim
organisation wanting to destroy the holy sites?"

"True." Simon nodded. "But in both cases… y'know, even martyrdom is done in
support of an objective, and I feel like if body count alone was the idea,
they would have gone off already. It's a big and insecure part of the planet
and they've had plenty of time to drive those bombs to pretty much anywhere in
Afro-Eurasia. If the plan was just to cause mayhem or to enrage the Muslim
population, they'd have gone off already. I think."

Sean raised a hand. "Am I alone in being a tad concerned about going up
against people who stole some nukes and who may be willing to use them?" he
asked.

"Don't let me stop you if you want to back out." Simon told him. "Goodness
knows, it'd be a welcome relief from Jacqui spamming me all the time telling
me to talk you out of it." he added, referring to his sister, Sean's mother.

"…Ava?" Sean asked.

She thought about it. She knew what her answer was, but it would be nice to
articulate _why_.

"Simon… What do you think about what happened to San Diego?" She asked.

Simon sat back and considered her. "How d'you mean?"

"Like… what's your theory on what happened?"

Simon pondered his reply carefully before giving it. "I think… look, all the
credible science commentators have all agreed that it was some kind of
antimatter-based weapon. Five kilograms, they reckon." He said.

"Five kilograms of antimatter would cost about three hundred thousand trillion
dollars." Ava told them.

"Jesus." Sean muttered. "That's… how much is that?"

"A fuck of a lot." Simon told him, unhelpfully.

"All the combined goods and services of the planet Earth would add up to that
in about seven years or so." Ava told him. "So… yeah. There is NO WAY that
bomb was human activity. It was aliens, I guarantee you. And - oh look, within
a few years of it happening, there's a huge increase in defense spending, we
start building spaceships and my boy-…" she paused, pulled an annoyed face and
started over "…my **_ex_**-boyfriend winds up as the poster boy for a new
generation of spaceborne serviceman."

Simon nodded. "And then a Pakistani freighter carrying presumably nukes loses
that cargo on the open ocean, only for one of them to show up a month or two
later exactly where it makes the least sense." he said.

"Right. It's like if somebody who didn't really understand the politics and
religion and the whole… the whole _everything_ that's going on in the middle
east was looking to try and shake up a real clusterfuck of a war in the
region." Ava told him.

"To what end?" Sean asked.

"Iunno." Ava shrugged. "But what happens if they succeed? What if the whole
Middle East _did_ descend into World War Three? Would the allies be able to
just ignore that and keep throwing resources up into space?"

"Not bloody likely…" Simon mused. "Where did you come up with a theory like
that, anyway?"

"It's… there's kind of a _pattern_." Ava told him. "Adam and I… our first date
was to a roller derby. He spotted somebody in the crowd he recognised from a
murder investigation, and… there was somebody lurking outside with an assault
rifle, and… Y'know, it was almost a mass shooting."

"You never mentioned this!" Sean gaped at her.

"It's how Dad got his injury. He was… the gunman got him in the back. But then
years later, when we lost Sara… that guy moved the exact same way. Adam saw
that instantly. And he was doing _something_ in the Byron launchpad at
Folctha…"

She gritted her teeth and sighed, frowning. "It's… I can almost put my thumb
on it. It's like a word on the tip of my tongue. I can _feel_ that those two
men really were connected, to each other and to San Diego, and to all this
spending and the SOR… and to this." she tapped the picture of _Nasarpur_ and
_Zulfiquar_. "To that freighter and the nukes. It's all part of the same
thing, I know it is. This piece of the puzzle just _fits_."

They considered the image again.

"Bloody hell, duck." Sean said eventually, shivering. "If you were trying to
talk me into coming with, you've done a shitty job."

"And given me a lot to think about." Simon added. "Where do we even _begin_
investigating something like that? And if you're right… there's no way that
the intelligence services aren't involved."

"What's the alternative?" Ava asked. "I heard there's an Icelandic choir gonna
go do a concert tour around Dominion space. You want to go cover that
instead?"

"That'd be the sensible thing to do." Simon suggested.

"Fuck sensible." Ava grumbled. "Whatever this thing is, it killed my parents
and ruined my life, and I'm not alone. I wanna fight back. So hell yeah, I'm
in."

Simon gave her a long, slow stare, then turned to Sean. "I like her." he
declared.

"Said you would." Sean agreed.

Simon stood up. "Let me… let me plan this." he said. "I'm not quite sure where
an investigation like this might start. And no offense, Ava, but you being
American is going to complicate matters if we just head straight for Saudi
Arabia or wherever and start poking around. For the time being, fill out those
forms I gave you and submit them. We can at least get your credentials sorted
so that whatever we decide to do, we're ready to do it. Okay?"

Ava and Sean nodded, and he stood. "Get some bags packed and ready to go, keep
them by the front door or somewhere. I'll be in touch."

Sean let him out.

"Are we crazy?" he asked, on returning. "I mean, are we _seriously_ going to
kick off our careers in journalism by going to the Middle East and chasing
nukes?"

"I think Simon's either crazy or desperate to take us along." Ava replied
unconcernedly, stretching out on the couch.

"Doesn't that bother you?"

"I gave my last fuck months ago."

"That's _not_ what I wanted to hear!"

Ava tucked her hands behind her head. "Sean, don't you get it? Didn't you put
the pieces together? Didn't you listen to a thing I just said?"

Sean frowned at her and circled around to drop in the armchair. "Clearly I
didn't." he muttered.

Ava sighed and sat up. "Someone or some_thing_ wants us **_dead."_** she said.
"You MUST have seen the Vancouver attack footage. And everybody knows about
the, the quarantine field and come _on!_ You think two million dead
Californians happened by _accident?_ Adam and I could have been in that, it
kind of rams the point home!"

"You really think-?"

"No. I fucking _know_, Sean. I saw a man shoot a fourteen-year-old girl
because she was in the way. That's what we're up against. I don't know who, or
what, or why, but I know that SOMETHING with more antimatter than we could
produce if we turned all of the Earth's civilizations to making it and pumped
it out for a lifetime… Something with _that_ wants us dead. And it's somehow
got some humans on its side too."

She gestured to the window. "And what are the options? Do nothing? Get drunk?
Fuck a lot and try to enjoy ourselves before they succeed because we didn't
try and stop them? The _Hell_ with that! I- I _can't_!"

She was amazed to discover that she was crying.

Sean, very gently, shifted from chair to couch and put a hand on her upper
arm. "You sure you're not still feeling guilty over Adam?" he asked.

"Of _course_ I still feel guilty over Adam!" Ava tore away from him and surged
to her feet, angry now. "How does that change anything? Who gives a fuck? It
doesn't _matter_ what my reasons are for doing it, it's still the _right thing
to do_."

"We could get killed."

"Oh, _wake up!!_ We WILL get killed some day. Cancer, or a car crash, or an
antimatter bomb from space or… who the fuck knows?! Death doesn't scare me,
Sean. If it scares you, you're welcome not to come along."

He laughed gently. "I did say **_'we'_** could get killed, didn't I?"

Ava stilled. "…Okay, what's _your_ reason?" she asked, turning to face him.

Sean shrugged. "A bad one." he conceded, picking at something invisible on his
jeans and not looking at her. "But, y'know. Better to do the right thing for a
bad reason, right?"

"…Yeah."

Ava considered challenging him for a better answer, but settled for shrugging
and trudging out of the room and up the stairs into her bedroom to prepare a
bag as Simon had suggested. Every fiber of her wanted to be sullen, angry and
bitter pretty much all the time, and she was damned if she'd indulge that
impulse, even if Sean couldn't resist _his_ impulse to drop a veiled and
passive _'I love you'_ on her whenever he could, which was _really_ starting
to be a pain in the…

She paused, took a deep breath, and started over.

She had to do that a lot as she packed, just as she'd had to do every day for
weeks now. Every single resource she could find about travel in the Middle
East stressed modesty. _Modesty_! As if the God who'd created the human body
had intended for it to be an object of revulsion and fear. As if men were so
weak that women had to suffer the burden of controlling their impulses for
them-!

Pause. Deep breath. Start over.

It was getting better, day by day. Every time she caught herself flying into a
rage, every time she closed her eyes, inhaled and let go, it made the next
time a little easier.

She took her time and focused as hard as she could on packing the bag as small
and efficient as possible. Tight jeans were out, but that was okay, she had
some loose slacks. These formed the outer layer, inside which were rolled her
flannel shirts, loose tops and everything she had that would combine to cover
her from wrist to chin to ankle without scandalizing the oh-so-delicate male
sensibilities-

Pause, deep breath, start over…

Underwear, socks, sanitary pads, some makeup essentials, a pretty square scarf
that should hopefully pass muster as a hijab if she needed it. She spent a few
minutes practicing putting it on, threw it into the corner in disgust after
she managed to jab herself in the back of the head with a pin - pause, deep
breath, start over - retrieved it and, after a few minutes, became satisfied
that she was putting it on correctly without having to refer to the WikiHow
guide.

Experimentally, she wore it alongside the clothing she'd picked out. It wasn't
baggy and formless, at least. In fact…

"Modest and _still_ hot." she congratulated herself, then realised that in
testing her outfit she'd managed to completely undo all her progress on
packing the bag.

She paused. She took a deep breath, and she started over.

**Date Point 10y4m AV**

**HMS Sharman, Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Regaari_**

"Chasing after Shoo was more than just a personal mission for me, it became a
lucrative contract for the Clan."

Admiral Sir Patrick Knight had been summoned, and Regaari was now being
politely interrogated in a meeting room somewhere in HMS _Sharman_'s
structure. Ayma, apparently, was to be _'debriefed'_ separately.

Somehow, Regaari had expected the admiral to be a near-clone of major Powell -
sturdy, strong, and rough. Knight in fact was tall and slender and the
translator rendered him with a refined, intellectual accent similar to that of
Clan Highmountain. "How so?" he asked

"The females are… _extremely_ devoted to their ideal of Clan loyalty. More so
than any male is to his clan, and that is quite a feat." Regaari explained.
"Their devotion to one another apparently transcends species. They're in
something of an uproar right now over the wisdom of bringing a human - Shoo -
into the Clan, but the one thing that none of them will even _think_ of
suggesting would be ejecting her from the Clan of Females. She's a Sister, and
will be a Sister for as long as she lives."

"And this benefited Whitecrest… how?" Knight inquired.

"I am an - apparently - prestigious officer of Clan Whitecrest, and I led an
exhaustive investigation, chasing Shoo across known space." Regaari explained.
"Now, this was advantageous to Whitecrest first because it was a valuable
intelligence-gathering venture in its own right. We _tripled_ the reach of of
our surveillance network in searching for her. That alone would have been
reason enough to do it, but the _mating contracts…"_

"You did it all for the nookie?" Powell asked. His expressions were always
harder to read than most humans, but there was just enough there for Regaari
to guess at a joke of some kind. Joking or not, however, the observation was
completely on target.

"For as long as the search continued," Regaari told him "we had the respect
and attention of practically every female on Gao. For males, that is a rare
and hugely coveted position to be in - it means that for once WE get to choose
our mating partners, rather than the other way around. We advanced our
breeding program by generations during this operation."

"Breeding program?"

"Selectively enhancing the Whitecrest line by mating with females carrying
gene-stock from other clans. The Stonebacks, the Highmountains, the One-fangs…
breeding for strength, intelligence, reflexes… Every clan has just such a
program in effect, planning our own genetic futures."

The humans shared an uneasy glance for some reason. "Is… something the
matter?" Regaari asked them.

"Call it a cultural foible." Knight conceded. "Eugenics has been an
historically, uhm… _tricky_ subject on Earth. Where does Kirk come into this?"

"When I was travelling with Shoo and Ayma, we found ourselves with a dilemma."
Regaari said, sitting back. Designed as the seats were for human proportions,
his feet were dangling ridiculously but he didn't care. "She wouldn't go back
to Gao, you see. She was convinced that she would bring down the Swarm of
Swarms just by being there. Who knows, maybe she was right? On the evidence of
Capitol Station, we wouldn't have been able to fight them… and the commune she
lived at and all the city around it would have been inundated with slavering
predators. I think that thought scared her more than the possibility of being
eaten herself."

Knight and Powell both nodded. Regaari recognised that nod - it was the one
that indicated agreement without wanting to interrupt.

"Returning her to Earth was also not within our power. No channels of
communication, no help from the Dominion… we didn't even know where Earth
was." he paused. "In fact, I still don't."

"The distal end of the Border Stars." Knight told him. "A cluster we call the
Local Group".

Regaari tried to recall what he could of the Dominion's galactic map. The
galaxy was an incomprehensibly huge place, and the broad-strokes creation of a
notional feature such as a band of uninhabitable systems which marked the no-
man's land between the Dominion and the Alliance inevitably included tens of
thousands of stars. It was all far too big for any living being's brain to
accommodate.

"A long way from Gao and from what the Dominion thinks of as civilization,
then." he concluded. "And with the Dominion actively obscuring that
information and stymieing efforts to contact your species… well, we were
forced to stay on the move. Shoo disguised herself as a Sister and we took
care to travel parts of the Dominion far from Gao, where she would be less
likely to be discovered. It was there that we started to hear rumours."

"About Kirk." Powell checked.

"About Councillor Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk." Regaari had long mastered the
trick of letting his cybernetics transmit the name to the translator rather
than trying to pronounce it. "We would find stations where they were still
talking about their vagrant Deathworlder and the fact that one of the galaxy's
most notorious political figures had just swept in, collected them and
departed. We had just started looking for him when… well, there was an
incident. It persuaded Shoo to leave us and go it alone."

**"**What happened then?"

**"**Ayma was furious with her." Regaari remembered fondly. "I think she'd forgotten that Shoo is a human, with human instincts. She saw her as a Sister, and expected her to behave like one."

**"**In what way?" Knight asked.

"Forgive the broad generalization here, but… the Clan of Females stand
together and they can be both savage and a bit stupid about it. Threaten one
of them, and they will unite to make your life a misery, even if actually
doing so is beyond their power. Humans, I think, will do that too… up to a
point. And I think that point is the one where an individual decides to
sacrifice themselves for the good of the rest."

"That's _very_ broad strokes." Powell commented.

"Borne out by individual examples that I have personally witnessed, Major.
Sergeant Leo Price, for instance."

Knight and Powell looked at one another again. It was amazing how much humans
communicated between themselves just by taking a half-second glance at each
others' faces. Regaari had no idea what the unspoken conversation had
entailed, but Powell cleared his throat.

"So you returned to Gao." he said.

"By way of Perfection." Regaari duck-nodded. "Ayma didn't know why, but I…
made use of a resource."

"The Contact." Knight guessed.

"Now _how_ do you know about her?" Regaari demanded.

"Via Kirk."

"Ah. Of course. I should have known he would use her services as well… Well,
for a fair price, she sold me information concerning Kirk and his ship.
Contact information as well, which turned out to be obsolete. Or at least, he
never got in touch via those channels. I have no idea why not."

"In any case" he continued "when the Whitecrest clan set about trying to find
Shoo, we were able to trace her to a station in the Signal Stars. FTS-1090
'_Endless Possibility_'. The trail went dead there."

"Why?"

"The station's traffic records were corrupted. Every ship that stopped there
over nearly half a Gaoian year, their origin, destination, flight plans… all
lost. All we had to go on was civilian rumour and gossip."

"And what did those have to say?"

"They were abuzz. A Gaoian female had fought with a human male and fled the
station. Some time later, that human had left with some other humans in the
company of a Rrrtk."

"Fought?" Knight asked.

"'_Wiped the floor with him_' as you say." Regaari commented, clearly pleased
for his friend's prowess. "The station's population weren't sure whether to be
sceptical of the stories of human strength, or whether to start thinking
Gaoians are deathworlders too. The idea of a disguise never crossed their
minds… though to be fair, it was a _good_ disguise."

"That matches with Kirk's final report…" Powell observed.

"That it does," Knight agreed "but those logs being corrupted is new
information, and not Kirk's MO at all… Enemy action?"

Powell grunted and nodded. "Trying to cover their tracks."

"Which means that Kirk, his crew and Miss Chang stumbled across something
important."

"At the kinds of speeds _Sanctuary_ could get to, that something important
could be anywhere, sir."

"True, but the _escape pod_ is much slower… hmm."

"Enemy action?" Regaari asked, "What enemy?"

He knew a poker-face when he saw one, and both Knight and Powell had
impenetrable ones. "Doesn't matter." Powell grunted.

"We do have plenty of enemies, after all." Knight agreed, a touch more
diplomatically. "And this all happened five years ago."

Regaari considered calling bullshit - it was a phrase he'd learned early on
from Shoo's movies, and loved - but decided against it. It would only
antagonize them, and be unlikely to work.

"Not that I'm authorised to make a formal offer…" he started. "But the Clans
might well be interested in closer ties with humanity over the coming years.
Knowing who your enemies are might shape that decision, or prepare us for
coming up against them…"

Again, there was a borderline-telepathic silent conversation between Knight
and Powell that took little more than enough time for both men to glance at
one another. "Well said," Knight agreed. "I'll… need to take advice from my
colleagues and superiors on that, however."

"By all means." Regaari agreed. "Now… on to the matter of Ayma and I visiting
Earth…"

**Date Point: 10y4m AV**

**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Kirk_**

In the weeks since they had first arrived at Mrwrki, Lewis' initial
experiments with the nanofactory had largely revolved around creating a series
of construction drones, which had in turn assembled for him an apartment,
rebuilding part of the station's structure so that the nanofactory and its
control centre was basically his living room.

The apartment itself was little more than a bedroom, bathroom, kitchen and a
large working area, the latter comprised of a commodious comfortable chair,
more volumetric screens and work surfaces and what looked to Kirk's eyes like
a hundred data pads strewn over the floor, piled on the surfaces, tucked into
the corners of the chair, and generally littering the place like ticker-tape
in the aftermath of an especially pompous parade.

Lewis was trying to keep himself to a healthy routine, to the point where Kirk
was under strict orders from him to enter the apartment with a shock prod and
zap him if he didn't stick to the rules he'd set himself.

Quite why Lewis would need to be reminded to go to sleep, to bathe, to eat and
to change his clothing was a bit of a mystery, but as Kirk understood it, a
human in the grip of an obsession could neglect his basic needs, and Lewis had
self-diagnosed a strong propensity for exactly that kind of obsession.

At least, that was how Kirk had described it to Vedreg. Lewis' exact words had
been "Dude, I'll fall asleep on a slice of mouldy pizza inside a week if you
don't remind me to clean up and look after myself. Been there, done that."

To his credit, Lewis was sticking to his schedule _almost_ without prompting,
and he was benefiting from it, too. Aboard _Sanctuary_, he had stuck to the
bare minimum of exercise that Julian and Kirk had conspired to force on him.
Now…

It was impossible for a human to seem "scrawny" by the standards of Kirk's
species. Humans - even unfit, skinny humans - were pretty much nothing _but_
muscle and bone, and those muscles and bones were denser, tougher, stronger
and proportionately larger. To an Rrrtk's eyes, even Lewis was dense and
sturdy enough to shake the deck plating as he walked, and Lewis was decidedly
scrawny by human standards.

His general proportions hadn't changed much on a regime of tai chi and yoga,
but his movements had. Lewis had sort of… flopped about the place before,
treating being upright as something he did en route to sitting somewhere else,
with shoulders slouched and expression distracted, only to focus when he was
sat at a terminal, working on a stimulating challenge. _Now_, he moved with
the same kind of fluid alertness that Allison and Julian had possessed. His
back was straighter, his step lighter, his expression _here_ and _now_. It was
like he was always at a terminal these days, always working on a stimulating
challenge.

Maybe he was. He was certainly absorbing knowledge with a voracity that defied
comprehension, and sometimes he made _huge_ tangential links between two
subjects that Kirk would never have thought to connect. What was the
association between climate science and politics? What did either of them have
to do with nanofactorys? For that matter, how did biology and computer
programming enmesh?

Lewis had explained. Kirk prided himself that he was one of the smarter
members of a species that had, prior to the arrival of humans and Gaoians,
been generally respected as the only sophonts around who could give the Corti
a run for their money, but Lewis's exploration of those connections had been
so arcane that he still wasn't sure he understood it.

Could a local drought _really_ spark a civil war? Let alone a regional
conflict that went on to drag in half the factions on an entire planet? How
could software _evolve_? In what possible way were either of those already
impenetrable relationships relevant to using the nanofactory to build a weapon
against the Hierarchy?

Lewis had finally silenced his questions by instructing him to "Go read the
Dirk Gently books, dude."

Kirk hadn't been able to find an author by that name, but he _had_ been
introduced to Douglas Adams, to the concept of "holistic" and, in researching
_that_, to the whole field of Chaos Theory.

The "fundamental interconnectedness of all things" seemed like a bizarre and
nonsense concept at first, but the more Kirk had dug into it, the more he
realised that he had been exploiting exactly that principle ever since he'd
left _'Outlook on Forever'._ Relying on it, even. Everything came back to
humans in the end - after all, he'd planned to use them to tear down the rusty
and stifling entrenched power of the Dominion from the inside.

He snapped out of his thoughtful mood as he approached Lewis' door. Kirk had
gone without company for a couple of days while Vedreg slept, and yesterday's
attempt to check in with Lewis had ended in the human calling _"Busy! Come
back tomorrow!"_ through the door.

This time, the door opened.

Lewis' outfit had changed dramatically, for some reason. He bathed daily and
the first thing to come out of Mrwrki's nanofactory under his control had been
a machine for washing and drying his clothes. Even though the forge could have
recycled them and built him new clothes every day if he wanted them, he'd
stuck to the same fraying jeans and sand-coloured T-shirt that he had been
abducted in, years ago.

These were now gone and replaced with robes of some kind, or something like a
kimono or karate gi… it was hard to tell exactly what, given Kirk's own lack
of expertise with the intricacies of human clothing and the fact that Lewis
had probably designed the garment from memory. The end result was something
loose and comfortable.

Lewis was curled up in his Thinking Chair - the huge comfortable one that Kirk
could almost have squeezed himself into - reading something off a tablet.

"Hey man. Come on in."

"How are you doing?" Kirk asked, accepting his invitation and entering the
suite properly. It was remarkably clean, especially considering Lewis' self-
confessed propensity for squalor.

"Trying to get my head around quantum computing." Lewis murmured, in the soft
way he always did when concentrating. "I get the theory, there's just…
subtleties to the way the Corti go about using qubits that're giving me an
idea."

"Like what?"

"Don't even ask me to explain, man. I've got, like, a _shape_ forming in my
head and, like, there's a bit that I _think_ is gonna fit there, but even if
it does, ain't no way I'm going to be able to explain it without telling you
the whole shape."

"I like the new wardrobe." Kirk changed the subject. "Very… zen."

"I was going for Tron: Legacy, man. Flynn had his shit worked _out_."

"He did?"

"Yuh-huh. If you're gonna spend however the fuck long in exile with like, two
or three people to talk to, tops… may as well be comfortable and meditate a
lot."

He swiped right on the tablet. "It helps, actually. Weirdly."

"I wouldn't know. Is this what you were doing yesterday?"

"Yeah, dude. Ass finally went on my jeans. You came along while I was buck-
ass, assembling me some new duds."

Kirk snorted, amused. "Lewis, what possible reason would I have to care?" he
asked.

"Yeah, yeah. Just because the whole galaxy are nudists, we're the weird ones."
Lewis scoffed. "Clothing is _practical_ dude."

"Practical for what, exactly?"

"Well, fuckin' pockets for a start."

Kirk just rocked his weight backward onto his four hindlegs, the comfortable
sedentary posture of a Rrrtk not planning to go anywhere for a while. He was
wearing a utility belt, two holsters and a pair of saddlebags, none of which
would have begun to qualify as _'clothing'_ by a human's standards, yet which
meant that he was already rather better-equipped with pockets than Lewis had
ever been in his jeans. Certainly, Lewis' _'Flynn'_ robes didn't seem to have
pockets at all.

He decided not to press the issue. That way lay an argument just as
intractable as trying to point out to the Kwmbwrw that they were, biologically
speaking, obligate omnivores and that their strictly herbivorous lifestyle led
to malnutrition problems that placed a permanent burden on their economy.
Certainly, the Kwmbwrw and the Gaoians had been at odds over that point from
the instant the Gaoians had made first contact.

"Not to rush you…" he said, delicately. "But I was rather expecting that you
would have started to build things and experiment by now."

"I have."

"…You have?"

"Sure. I've just not built anything _useful_ man. So it's all gone back in the
recycler."

Kirk angled his head so that he could get Lewis into his very limited range of
binocular vision. "Nothing useful at all?"

"Well, I made the washer-dryer, and an oven and some cake tins for Vedreg, and
don't forget all these tablets…" Lewis shrugged, swiping right again. "But
like, as for the Big Project? Yeah, I've thrown together a few basic ideas,
some proofs-of concept. But I can either do the mad scientist thing and fill
my space with every last shitty little project that's never gonna come to
anything until I've got nowhere to work, or I can keep the place tidy."

"You _do_ keep saying that you are naturally an untidy person." Kirk pointed
out.

"Dude you have no idea what untidy really is." Lewis told him, setting the
tablet aside. "I'm being fucking _careful_ here because I…"

He stopped, suddenly and visibly emotional, then sprang to his feet. "Room.
How far to Sol?"

The room spoke in a clearly synthetic voice. "_The approximate straight-line
distance from this station to Sol is: Half a galactic radial length."_

"That's about seven kiloparsecs, Kirk. Twenty-three thousand light years. If
we had _Sanctuary_ here and I hopped in her _right now_ and flew her straight
home? It'd take me two and a half weeks, and that's if I magically somehow
managed to do it without having to stop to degauss every day." Lewis cleared
his throat and gestured to the map: the straight line route strayed
dangerously close to the galactic core, where starships never dared to
venture. "If I took the spacelanes… Room, if I had a ship with a cruising
speed of five hundred kilolights, how long would it take me to reach Sol via
cleared spacelanes?"

_"Calculating… approximate travel distance, one point three galactic radial
lengths. Approximate journey duration in human units rounding up, not
including necessary resupply and degauss stops: Sixty days."_

Kirk watched Lewis' shoulders sag, before he turned around. "And Cimbrean is
even further. Two months, Kirk. If I had the fastest ship in the Milky Way
_right here_, it'd take me _two months_ to get home. On most ships? Like, if I
tried to hitch-hike home on freighters and whatever, I could be at it for
_years_."

He dismissed the galactic projection with a swipe of his arm. "I am a _long
way_ from other humans right now. I like you and Vedreg well enough, sure.
But… You guys can go without, if you have to. Me? if I'm not very, very
careful, I'ma go crazy and I fucking know it. I have GOT to take care of
myself: No mess. No clutter. Do my chores, exercise, say my fuckin' prayers,
whatever, and **maybe** I'll be able to go a few years without completely
losing my shit."

There was a long moment of silence, and then Lewis climbed back into his
Thinking Chair. "So mebbe you'd better let me get on with all this studying I
gotta do, 'cause the sooner I get it done and come up with a solution, the
sooner I can get out of this cage you've shoved me in. Good talk, buddy. Let's
do this again tomorrow."

Not quite knowing what to say, Kirk watched him in silence for a minute, and
then pushed his weight forward onto all six legs again and made himself
scarce.

**Date Point 10y4m AV**

**Byron Group Headquarters, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth.**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Rachael glanced up then gave him her professional smile and gestured to the
door. "Go right on through, Mister Jenkins."

"Thanks Rachael."

Of all the perks that he had acquired during the last few weeks, Kevin was
finding that the one he enjoyed most was that he could walk into Moses Byron's
office whenever the hell he liked. _Nobody_ else in the Group enjoyed that
privilege.

He whispered to himself as he entered Byron's office, reflecting on his
expensive suit and six-figure salary with bonus. _"Look at me now, Moira…"_

"What was that, Kevin?" Byron set his tablet down on his desk and looked up.

"Just talkin' to myself, boss."

"Only way to get some intelligent conversation sometimes." Byron chuckled, and
sat back, folding his arms comfortably. "What's up?"

"Company wants a final report on that lunar jump beacon. Figured it'd only be
fair to get your side."

Byron frowned. He hated having the subject of that particular blunder raised.
"Agent Williams already got that out of me." he grumbled.

"Figure she's not interested in hearing the positives, Mister Byron."

Byron made a tired noise. "What is this, Kevin? Good Cop Bad Cop? Am I paying
you to be my interrogator now?"

"You're _paying_ me to make sure the Company never has to visit your office
ever again." Kevin pointed out.

"Okay, okay…" Byron stood up and hit his wet bar again. Kevin had noticed he
did that in pretty much every meeting, and also that - excepting the meeting
with Special Agent Williams (AKA Darcy) - he never actually drank what he
mixed. Presumably it was all a ploy to put his people at their ease and steer
the conversation his way. "What's your poison?" he asked.

"I'm fine without, thanks. One DUI is enough for a lifetime."

"We've got people could drive you back." Byron pointed out.

"Takes all the fun out of it, boss."

Byron sighed and reclaimed a little momentum by mixing something for himself -
a Virgin Manhattan - before sitting down as he dropped in the maraschino
cherry. "Okay. Fire away."

"Robert Frost."

Frost had been one of the four crew on _Reclamation_, the ship that Byron had
sent out to investigate the disappearances of BGEVs one, three, four and six.
Somewhere during the ill-fated mission's chain of misadventures, Frost had
been forced to take a translator implant. He'd been under the scanner of a
surgical robot, about to have the implant whipped straight back out again,
when a Hierarchy agent had stepped into his head and used his body to murder
the _Reclamation_'s captain, Jason Nolan.

Things had only gotten worse for them after that, but a full recording of the
changes in Frost's brain as he was taken over had, briefly, been in the hands
of the Byron Group's scientists: Byron had promptly deleted it.

Byron set his drink down, a little too sharply. "What about him?"

"Williams wasn't impressed that you destroyed evidence there. The scans of his
brain, all that stuff…"

"Unethical." Byron grunted. "Couldn't be used without huge human rights
violations, and couldn't be kept without maybe ruining the Group if it ever
leaked."

Kevin had to agree, but he had the questions he'd been instructed to ask. "Not
even to research ways to stop the control from happening?"

"I trust my people." Byron said. "Whenever they know things I don't, I defer
to them. That's true of you, and it's true of Ericson and Billings. Both of
them recommended destroying the data. When I discussed the implications with
Mr. Williams - _our_ Williams, that is, our chief of security - he said the
exact same thing."

"And why not forward it to the government?"

Byron snatched his drink up again and stood to tour the office. "This may come
as a surprise to you, Kevin, but I don't _trust_ the government." he said,
fetching up by the window. "The government has been sitting on a secret this
huge for _years_. It knows who destroyed San Diego and why, and more defence
spending than my whole Group is worth has gone dark in going after them. All
of which has vindicated my lack of trust in them, which I've had since _long_
before pretty little Agent Williams waltzed in here and told me off like a
naughty schoolboy."

He drained the mocktail in one, and set it down on top of his bookshelf with a
shaking hand, plainly angry.

"_Extinction?!_" he snarled, spinning around suddenly. "These people are
playing with _extinction_ and they're keeping people like ME out of the loop?
People who could _help?!_ Cause _yeah_, I knew something was up with the
implants, but I was worried about… corporate sabotage, or spying. I was
worried about losing more good people, so I added a failsafe to get them home
_fast_ in case something went wrong. Stuff like that, small tragedies that we
could handle! Nobody said a dang thing about extinction, and I had no good
reason to suspect it was even on the cards! But nooo, only the _government_
can handle the responsibility of playing _games_ with the lives of billions!
Only the _government_ has that right!"

He strode back to his chair and threw himself into it. "If I wasn't happy with
having that data used by _my_ people, then what in the Sam Hill makes you
think I'd forward it to the _government_?" he asked. "It'd be just as
unethical if _they_ used it, and just as ruinous to us if it ever got out that
_we_ were the ones that supplied it. And you can put every mother-loving word
I just said into your report verbatim, Kevin. I don't _need_ a positive spin
on that one."

Kevin took a deep breath and gave it time for some of Byron's rage to
dissipate out of the room. "You sure you don't want something with alcohol in
it, Boss?" he asked, lightly.

Byron grunt-chuckled. "One liver's enough for a lifetime." he said, echoing
Kevin's earlier sentiment. "Reckon if I start drinking every time I get
stressed, that way lies a couple transplants. No thank you… did the Company
want you to ask me anything else?"

"I think you've said enough." Kevin replied, putting his phone away - he'd
recorded the whole rant. "Anything you need from me before I head back?"

"Matter of fact, there is." Byron stood up again, and retrieved an old-
fashioned physical document in a slim black plastic folder from atop his
filing cabinet. He spun it onto the desk in front of Kevin. "You hear all the
brouhaha up in Vancouver over the three space cadets who came home?"

"They're fellow abductees and friends of an old friend, in fact." Kevin said,
opening it. The folder contained duplex printouts of the three _Sanctuary_
survivors and a quick run-down of everything that the Group had been able to
learn about them. Even at a cursory glance, their summaries made for
impressive reading, and they didn't include some of what Kevin knew about Kirk
and his mission.

"No kidding? Well, I want them for EV-Eleven, not least because this Etsicitty
fella's got about the most sophisticated prosthetic foot on Earth and that's a
market I wouldn't mind breaking into. Any objections?"

"None, so long as that's ALL they've got, cyber-wise." Kevin shook his head.
"It's only stuff that touches the brain that I'm worried about… though, for
personal reasons, I wouldn't mind having a word with them."

"That's fine. Not a bad idea if you meet them in person and assess them
anyway. Reckon your other employers will object?"

"I doubt it."

"Okay. Go have fun talking to your friends of a friend." Byron technically had
to wait for Kevin to decide to leave but, despite that in Kevin's opinion the
man was a high-functioning psychopath and a narcissist, he was still a damn
good boss and Kevin didn't mind letting him think he had the power. Keeping
Byron's ego feeling un-bruised made life easier for everybody else who worked
with him.

He stood and headed out. "Try not to get in trouble while I'm gone, boss."

Byron toasted him with his empty glass. "Kevin, you're on my speed dial." he
said.

**Date Point 10y4m AV**

**Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**

Training for the SOR was a delicate balancing act that weighed the need to
keep the team on standby ready for a mission should the need arise, versus the
hellish demands of keeping their bodies in the proper condition to _go_ on
that mission.

The result was training that varied in intensity throughout the week on a
pseudorandom schedule, one day of which was the Heavy Day, followed by a light
day for recovery.

Heavy day was designed for maximum effect at the expense of leaving the
operator burned out and shaking, often barely able to move. Today was Adam's
heavy day, and he'd elected to go for a simulated suit run.

These were pretty simple: Wearing the EV-MASS undersuit under a weighted
replica of the midsuit with a full tactical load - an arrangement that was
actually worse to wear than the suit itself because it was loose on him rather
than hugging tight and supporting its own weight - he set out for a dawn-to-
dusk run. Pick a direction, go. Turn back at noon. And if you had any designs
on saving your energies on the run out, you were just hurting yourself and
everybody else you might need that little bit extra performance for.

He'd settled on a road run today, and had set himself the challenge of making
it out as far as the coastal outpost of New Penzance.

New Penzance was nothing more than a research outpost - it had a cabin for the
researchers, a boat shed with launch ramp and a weather station, and a radio
mast for talking to Folctha. The parking lot was bigger than the combined
footprint of all the buildings, and Adam jogged across it, slapped the side of
the cabin, panted a smiling "hi!" to the surprised residents who were tending
to their boat, then turned and jogged back down the access road, checking his
timepiece. He'd made it just before noon, so when he reached the end of the
access road he turned left and continued along the coastal road for another
twenty minutes before the alarm went, calling him to turn back.

The return journey was always the worse. On the way out, even pushing the pace
as much as he needed to for good training, he could at least enjoy the
scenery, take in his surroundings, and they were fantastic surroundings.

The coast skirted the edge of the Scar, or the TMAZ, or the Skidmark, or
whatever you preferred to call it, and so the lush Cimbrean forests that had
once come right down to the tidemark - and the mangrove-like things that had
once lived beyond even that - were now gone. Here and there a decaying stump
jutted out of what was rapidly becoming scrubby coastal grassland. Imported
Earthling grasses were outcompeting the native plants at an astonishing rate
as they crowded out the sunlight and whipped the metaphorical rug out from
under them.

A bird - an actual Terran bird, sleek and agile - whipped overhead, speared
down into the grass and came up with something that could only be a native in
its talons. An Earthling wouldn't have been quite so… exploded.

A convoy of logging trucks swept up the road headed away from the city, and he
raised a greeting hand when the lead truck honked at him. There was a lot of
alien timber out there, and no point in letting it get eaten or choked by
imported alien insects and plants. Folctha was getting hugely wealthy off a
continent's worth of virgin extraterrestrial forest, and most coveted of all
was Pinkwood, with its delicate striations of alternating bands of dark
chocolate and taffy pink grain. As a structural material it was worthless: as
a luxury decorative wood, it was the most coveted thing on either planet, and
its looming extinction made its devotees all the more crazy.

Of course there were protests and environmental campaigners who decried the
rapacious logging of an endangered species, but the Reclamation Project had
pointed out in an impassioned statement that the tree was extinct anyway,
given that it was only a matter of time before the last one was killed by a
marauding immigrant. In the face of which every veneer, tabletop and
decorative turned piece that lived on as a treasured heirloom or favorite gift
only served to prolong the plant's unfortunate legacy and to remind humankind
of the degree of care and seriousness with which interstellar colonisation
would need to progress.

Adam's muscles had been gently burning away all morning of course, but as he
entered the young woodlands around Folctha, and more importantly when he
crossed the field threshold for the gravity generator, ramping up from
Cimbrean gravity to Earth gravity in about ten paces… _that_ was the point
when he hit the wall.

There were only so many energy-saving tricks that a man could do in these
circumstances. He could stay hydrated, suck down electrolytes and sugar like
his life depended on them, allow himself timed and _brief_ rest breaks to
stop, engulf an energy bar and recover a few drips of reserves before powering
on…

But the only way to really get through was the trance.

PJ training had only reinforced something that Legsy had taught him when he
was sixteen - that the human brain could enter a mode where pain, hunger,
fatigue, thirst… all of it became abstract information. In such a state,
focused completely on putting one foot at a time that little bit closer to
home, a man could run, and run, and run, and run. The sun took its sweet time
in ambling down to ground level, and the kilometers ticked by sporadically:
vanishing in handfuls, and yet each one taking an age.

Adam had another level beyond the trance which he saved for the most serious
exercise, when the only way to move forward was to literally _break_ himself.
He wouldn't need it today.

There was an established end-point at the base: Rebar had rigged up a sheet of
metal that rang like a gong when slapped in the big red circle at its center.
Your run or whatever you were doing wasn't complete until you staggered up to
it and rang it, did a circuit around the dorm for good measure, and slapped it
a second time.

_Getting_ there involved thumping doggedly along the coastal highway, past the
building he co-owned with Titan on Demeter Road, up Delaney Row, into Newlands
Park and uphill beside the river as the lights came on to celebrate the hours
of darkness. He crossed at the western footbridge, forced himself along Peake
Way, past the MPs on gate duty, past the Gravball hall and the scenario
course, past the open field where all of the base's staff who _weren't_
Spaceborne Operators did their PT, up to the dorm, slapped the gong - this was
where it got _truly_ difficult in the last few seconds - staggered around the
dorm counting every last step, slapped the gong _again_ and…

Pain. Pain, exhaustion, weariness and reality all flooded back in as he let go
and started _thinking_ again.

Mechanically, his hand hit the stop button on his timepiece, then grabbed his
drinking tube and he took a long, thirsty pull of his custom cocktail of high-
performance sports drink.

He sat down on his butt, rolled backwards, and lay there for a minute or two
while his breathing slowed and something resembling energy started to soak
into his tissues again.

Voices started to percolate into his sphere of awareness, and there was
something… familiar about one of them.

Well, okay. _Every_ voice on the base was familiar, but this one was familiar
in a way he hadn't heard in a while.

"…just ran past me without acknowledging me. Do you think he's okay?"

"Relax he's fine. Ain'tcha Horse?"

Adam opened his eyes. Baseball grinned down at him. Standing next to him
wearing what was _probably_ an expression of concern, were two Gaoians. He
didn't recognise the female, but the male? He knew that white cowlick
anywhere, especially coupled with a new prosthetic paw.

"Oh. Hey Dexter. How'ya doin'?"

The female chittered a Gaoian laugh. "You were right, Regaari. He's
overflowing with enthusiasm to see you again!"

Even Adam managed a laugh, and waved a hand reassuringly. "Just…" He looked to
Baseball. "Whassat words the Brits use?"

"Knackered." Base grinned. "How'd you do?"

"Got out past New Penzance." Adam smiled.

"Shit!" Base swore, though his grin got all the wider. "You _know_ we're gonna
have to try for Big Bay now, right?"

"No way your slow ass is getting out that far." Adam grunted. He rolled over
and, agonisingly, hauled himself upright with Base's help.

"Right, 'cause you're Speedy Gonzales." Base teased.

Adam chuckled. Olde-tyme racist though it was, he'd always loved that cartoon.
_"Andale! Arriba!"_ he grunted, and began the laborious process of rolling
over and heaving himself upright.

"Are you alright, Warhorse?" Regaari seemed genuinely concerned.

"I'm fine." Adam reassured him. "Good training. And… hey! Good to see you,
bro. Figured you'd come calling sooner or later."

He hit the release on his bag and let it slam to the ground. Both Gaoians took
an alarmed step back.

Ayma made an alarmed chirruping sound. "You were running carrying _that_?"

"Yyyup." Adam nodded then aimed a thumb at Baseball, who scooped the bag up
easily and slung it over his shoulder. "His turn tomorrow."

"But that must weigh…" Ayma paused and evaluated it.

"'Bout five times what you do." Baseball told her. "It's just what we do. You
comin' in for movie night, Hoss?"

"Ooh, what we watching?" Adam asked.

"You get the deciding vote." Base told him. "Terminator Two, or The Windup
Girl?"

"Oh man, we having a good movie night?" Adam asked. "Uh… Judgement Day, I
guess."

"Tee-two it is." Base smiled. "Go on, bro, hit the shower."

"Crue patch first. Ten milligrams."

Base had already palmed one, and produced it with a smirk. "Pussy."

Adam rolled his eyes even as he took the patch and pressed it firmly to his
aching right knee. It had definitely gone click in a nasty way during his
final circuit of the dorm. "Yeah, yeah. We'll see how tough you are when you
try an' run to Big Bay tomorrow, tough guy."

"Man, get your stinky ass in that shower so we can watch Ahnold do his shit."

They knocked fists, and Adam did as he was told, hobbling his way round the
dorm's side to the locker room and shower block.

Ordinarily, he would have soaked at length, but the lure of a good movie,
gaoians, and the bowl of jambalaya he had waiting for him was all too strong.

He swung by the kitchen to grab his dinner, took a couple minutes to microwave
it, and headed for the couch. Disappointingly, Dexter - Regaari - had elected
to maintain his dignity in front of the female, and hadn't joined the
comfortable, warm tangle of relaxation on the couch. Adam could relate. He'd
felt similarly awkward on the two occasions when Ava had joined them for a
movie.

He stomped on that thought immediately and found somewhere to insert himself
on the couch.

"So what is this movie about?" Ayma asked, perching herself delicately on the
armchair, which was otherwise only ever used by Major Powell, on the rare
occasion that he joined them.

Akiyama, as always, was the one who leaped to summarizing it. "Uh, okay, so
this is the second movie in a series and… what happened was that some idiot
invented a computer that took over the world and killed most everyone. This
dude John Connor…"

Ayma listened, rapt, and occasionally asked questions about the time travel
aspect of the story, and Adam grinned silently to Regaari when he climbed up
onto the back of the couch and made himself comfortable.

_"Everything okay with you two?"_ He whispered.

Regaari's ears drooped very slightly. In order to avoid triggering the
translator and having Ayma overhear, he had to reply in his faltering English.
_"She… only want be friend."_

_"Ouch. Sorry, bro."_

Regaari made a complicated duck-wobbling motion with his head that probably
served as a Gaoian shrug. _"Is best, prob'ly. Make hard with other Gao. They
not ready."_

He flashed a few teeth imitating a smile, and extended a bunched fist, which
Adam happily met with his own, and they settled back to watch the movie.

Schwarzenegger was in the middle of spin-loading his shotgun when there was a
knock on the door and Powell shoved his head round it. "Stay seated lads." he
ordered, even as the men on the couch were beginning the undignified scramble
to get upright. "Sorry for interruptin', but summat's come up."

Ayma stood up and gestured to his seat, a gesture he acknowledged with thanks
as Titan paused the movie.

Powell perched on the edge of it. "General Tremblay just got back to me about
our Gaoian friends visiting Earth." he said. Adam shot a glance at Regaari,
who nodded. "It's all gone a bit political, he says, and he wants to know how
soon we can make it happen wi'out compromising on safety."

"Sir… so soon?" Rebar asked. The men disentangled themselves and settled into
an alert posture, engaged with the conversation.

Powell admitted a small twitch of frustration, which coming from him was a
sure sign of stress, along with his thickened accent. "Ambassador Hussein got
involved. Dunno why, an' I wasn't told."

Regaari growled. "Father Rafek." he said, referring to the current Gaoian
ambassador. "He'll be keen to win points with Mother Yulna for his clan."

"It will backfire for him if he presses too hard." Ayma promised.

"Whatever the reason," Powell said "I have my orders. Two Gaoian VIPs to visit
Earth ASAP. Thoughts?"

"They'll need the full-time attention of two Protectors, sir." Base suggested,
immediately. "We're the only ones with the training in ET medicine for if they
get infected or inhale an allergen or something."

"And personal protection." Adam agreed. "Lot of folks on Earth who might want
to make some kind of a statement."

"Statement?" Ayma asked, ears swivelling in mixed curiosity and alarm.

Regaari seemed similarly concerned. "You think assault is a possibility?"

"_Bombs_ are a possibility." Blaczynski told them, a little too bluntly. He
promptly received a light slap upside the head from Murray.

Ayma didn't take it well. _"Bombs?!"_ she squeaked. Her ears plastered
themselves to her scalp and the fur along her spine bristled. Regaari shuffled
closer to her and placed a comforting paw on her upper back.

"Worst-case scenario." Powell told them, reassuringly. "And highly unlikely.
Bomb plots take time to organise and if this goes quick and smooth, there
won't _be_ that kind of time. Still, we have to consider all possibilities.
So, it's agreed; One protector per VIP. Aggressors? I'm thinkin' not
necessary."

"Probably not." Firth agreed. "Horse and Base have got Personal Protection
down pat, we'd just get in the way."

"Locals." Murray prompted.

"Aye. good shout." Powell agreed. "If we _need_ a marksman on the roof or
whatever, local operators or law enforcement would raise less comment. This is
gonna be public either way, but I'd still rather keep us out the spotlight."

"That just leaves us." Rebar said, he looked to the Gaoians. "Don't suppose
you guys brought some kinda deathworld hazmat suits with you?"

"No." Regaari admitted, plainly annoyed at himself. "We did not. We expected
longer negotiations."

"Can't that nanofactory of yours make them?" Rebar asked.

"Too large." Regaari explained. "The _Springing Ember's_ forge is for small
tools and utensils, spare components and parts. Not for a whole excursion
suit."

"We could fly back to Gao and acquire some?" Ayma suggested.

"How long would that take?" Powell asked.

Regaari looked at the ceiling, suggesting mental calculation. "In human units…
nine days each way."

"Call that Plan B." Titan suggested. "We can fix something up for you."

"You're sure, now?" Powell asked him. "Earth's right up there at the top of
the list for biohazards."

"Sir, if we make this thing and I have even a moment of doubt, you'll hear
about it."

"Make _what_ exactly?" Powell probed.

"Portable biofilter forcefield and a small gravity generator sewn onto a
modified MOLLE." Titan replied. He glanced left and right to Rebar and Sikes
who nodded along. "Not difficult, especially if that nanofactory can build
some Gaoian-tech ones. Even better if we can send 'em down to SCERF for Major
Nadeau's team to program and test. And we'll need Horse's skills as a
seamstress to tailor the harness."

The major nodded, satisfied. "Time frame on that?"

"Mmm… Two hours to put it together, a day to properly safety-test it." Titan
estimated.

"_Two_ days." Rebar corrected him. "Once SCERF have delivered the parts, that
is. And ideally, sir, I'd press for three."

"I'll pass that up the chain." Powell sat back and rubbed his face. "So. Three
to four days minimum, as many as… twenty or so if not."

"We could… Uh, actually, never mind." Blaczynski began.

"Problem?" Powell asked him.

"Nothing I can explain in present company, sir."

Regaari's head tilted in a way disarmingly similar to a concentrating dog's.
"If you had a suggestion for retrieving the suits from Gao faster than sending
the _Springing Ember,"_ he mused "But the suggestion involves sensitive
information… Then that implies that your ships have an impressive sustained
cruising speed. Faster than I had suspected."

Adam had already long since noticed Major Powell's clear tell - when something
surprised him or got past his guard, his best neutral expression slammed down,
which it now did. Scott Blaczynski, however, was not so accomplished a poker
player, and he had to fight to conceal a scowl. Either way, neither man could
have broadcast a clearer confirmation of Regaari's stunning leap of insight.

"I doubt they're going to comment." Ayma told him, answering on the humans'
behalf. "Please don't antagonize our friends, Snowtop."

"Snowtop?" Adam asked her. Regaari had a faintly put-out set to his stance
that suggested a touch of light-hearted teasing.

"Come on, that wicked white mohawk of his? Snowtop's a good'n." Sikes grinned.
A chuckle swept around the room, and Ayma looked quite pleased with herself.

"I do not have a _'mohawk'_ I have a _white crest."_ Regaari grumbled. "Or did
you think my clan's name was an accident?"

"Right. Okay. So that's the Defenders sorted." Powell grunted, immediately
regaining everybody's attention. "Burgess, Ares? Thoughts on their
suggestion?"

"Can't be too careful." Base mused. "Fields are great, but any car they ride
in's gonna want to be steam-cleaned and hypoallergenic before they get in it.
Same goes for hotel rooms, too."

"Shampoo, too." Adam offered. "We don't want stuff accumulating in that fur."

"And anybody who shakes hands needs to sanitize first. Even better, they need
a Frontline shot." Base continued.

"Hm. We should have a couple stasis containers on standby too, so if it all
goes FUBAR we can extract them to an ET hospital. One of those class ten
ones." Adam concluded.

"This conversation isn't filling me with confidence." Ayma confessed.

"That's because, to be straight with you? This trip is a _bad idea."_ Baseball
told her. Everyone in the room immediately gave him their undivided attention.
"You're only safe in this room talkin' with us because we've all got Frontline
implants, and so does everybody else on Cimbrean. So does Zoo Chang, which is
why things didn't go _real_ wrong for your homeworld the second you took her
there."

"Earth," he added "Is a whole different can of trouble. There's microbes
_everywhere_. In the air, in the rain, in the soil, on the ground and the
walls, on every surface you touch and on everybody's hands. There's gonna be
viruses, dust particles, pollen grains and airborne compounds comin' at ya
with every breath, and that's just the stuff that Titan's harness can deal
with. What happens if a wasp decides to ruin your day? What if you scratch
yourself on a rusty nail? I don't even wanna _think_ about what Tetanus would
do to a Gaoian!"

He sat forward to lend some extra solemnity to his words. "Throw in the
gravity, the weather, the poisonous plants and the fact that some crazy SOB
might just decide to take a shot at you for reasons that only make sense to
_his_ buggy ass and no-one else's? And that's all the stuff we probably know
how you'll react to. How about, uh, atmospheric pollution and heavy metal
contaminants?"

He tailed off and looked around. Very, very gently, Powell gave him the nod to
continue. "…Look, me and Horse, we've got your back. We'll be there and if we
don't keep you alive, ain't nobody was ever gonna." he said. "But this is a
real bad idea, mother Ayma. A _real_ bad one. As your Protector, charged with
your safety I gotta tell you: the safest thing you could do is not go."

"…Fuckin' A." Adam grunted.

Ayma exhaled at length, looked down, and then back up and met John's gaze
levelly. Her ears were up and forward, and there was a determined set to her
stance and the way her claws were slightly out that said everything before she
even spoke a word.

"Thank you for your kind warning and counsel." she said at last, and Adam
suspected she was speaking very formally and diplomatically. Regaari had
taught him that much about the Gaori language. "But I have a Sister on that
planet, and I _will_ speak to her at the very least. We are going."

Together, Adam and John glanced at Regaari, who was still standing behind her,
where she couldn't see. Slowly, and a touch awkwardly given the different
structure of his shoulders, he shrugged.

Adam knew that shrug. It was one he'd deployed himself on more than one
occasion when the women in his life were busy making it difficult.

"I think we've had our marching orders, major." he said.

Powell made a deep noise in the back of his throat. "That we have, staff
sergeant." he agreed. "Right. I'll pass everything you just said along to
General Tremblay. Go ahead and finish your movie night, lads, and get a good
night sleep in. I expect you'll be busy tomorrow."

A "yes sir" rippled through the humans, and Powell stood up. "'Night lads."

"'Night, sir."

Ayma settled into his abandoned chair as Powell left.

"Where were we?" she asked.

The men exchanged glances, then with a shrug Akiyama hit the remote again and
the burning wheel that had been frozen in place on screen for the last few
minutes resumed its bouncing journey.

Adam sat back and spent the rest of the movie in thought, pondering the task
to come.

Something told him that his coming night's sleep was about to be the best one
he'd get for a couple of weeks.

**Date Point 10y4m1d AV**

**Seawall, Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth.**

**_Xiu Chang_**

Just running was a relief. _Moving_ was a relief, not being surrounded by
people asking questions, so many questions… getting away from her fussing
mother, from a father who was constantly melancholy when he should have been
delighted, from a big little brother she didn't know how to talk with…

Just the freedom to _run_, under open sky in correct gravity rather than on a
treadmill, when every breath that rushed into and through and out of her was
dense and rich and _right,_ almost intoxicating.

For the first time since arriving on Earth, Xiu was _home._ Apparently home
was sweatpants, a cerulean running top, running shoes, asphalt pounding away
under her, and chilly sea air smelling of salt water and distant fish. Too
early in the morning for there to be anything but trees and benches to her
left, and water and mountains to her right, and only the occasional hardcore
jogger like herself to break the tranquility.

Earth itself was welcoming her home just fine. Trees and mountains and the
smell of the sea hadn't changed a bit.

It was _people_ who were giving her difficulty. Old school friends who'd visit
just long enough for an awkward hug and a gift before vanishing. The reporters
poised around her parents' house had only finally been persuaded to leave by
the realisation that Xiu was determined not to make herself pretty for the
camera, and was more interested in getting the hell away from them. Employers
wanted experience and marketable skills, for which purposes _Gung Fu_, fluency
in an alien language and three years of living as a vagrant in disguise
apparently didn't count.

It was all so _complicated_. And worse, everyone seemed to be disappointed and
upset when she didn't fit seamlessly back into their lives as if nothing had
happened. As if she hadn't been homeless and alone and had to fight monsters
and nearly been _killed_, and…

As if what happened to her was _her_ fault and she should just deal with it.

The city itself didn't give a fuck, thankfully. It was comforting to run past
the same old landmarks, be just another face on the street. An asian girl on
her morning fitness routine, anonymous and glad of it.

She was breathing hard by the time she passed under Lions Gate bridge. Too
many years of alien gravity, three weeks of hospital, binging on her mother's
home cooking and the last lingering effects of being spaced had all conspired
to badly hurt her fitness compared to the last time she had run this route.

She paused at the Prospect Point lighthouse, mentally calculating how far it
was to Siwash Rock which had been her objective for today.

Too far. Much too far, if she was being sensible. She'd be a wreck by the time
she reached it, and she'd still have to get back.

_"To hell with sensible_._"_ she muttered, not noticing that she'd said it in
Gaori, and kept going. She wanted to be thoroughly exhausted, today, having
had the bad news that morning that one of the girls in her ballet class had
died less than four months after she, Xiu, had been abducted. A bad cold had
turned into chest infection, had become a pneumonia without anybody realising.
She'd gone to bed early to try and sleep it off, never to wake. She'd been
nineteen.

Missing a couple of weddings and the birth of a little girl named after her
had all been body-blows, too. Running and recovering her fitness was keeping
her mind off how much she'd missed, at least. It was helping her cope.

There was a spot about two hundred meters further on where the seawall path
kinked inwards to hug the bottom of the cliff, and when it did she almost
tripped and fell over, because she'd just run into a dream.

Somebody had placed a sculpture out in the water. It hadn't been there ten
years ago - in fact, being burnished steel on a post in salt water, it
probably hadn't been out there for very long at all - but it was _right_ out
of the vivid dreams she'd had aboard _Sanctuary_: a faceless steel man,
sitting cross-legged and pondering a globe held delicately in his left hand.

She gaped at it, immobilized by _deja vu_, and then decided that maybe
sensible had its merits. She glanced back at it, half expecting it to suddenly
stand and throw the ball to her, and then retraced her steps.

She was still in a badly shaken mood by the time the taxi she had called
returned her to her parents' house in Strathcona. Slightly more shaking still
was the man sitting in their front room making polite small-talk over tea with
her family.

Xiu would be the first to admit to a nigh-total lack of experience with men.
She'd been kept away from them before her abduction, and then during the years
of her absence, the male she'd spent the most time with had been Regaari, who
probably didn't count given that he wasn't even human. Sure, toward the end
there had been Julian, Lewis, Amir and… and Zane… but by and large, men were
an alien species to her.

But, she'd spent years living among alien species and learning how to read
them, and this one, when he looked at her, did something that the Corti
normally did - he looked a little too long, he evaluated, he _analyzed_. She
immediately took a disliking to him.

He was kind of easy on the eyes though. Tall, all the best features of both
white and african heritage, and either his suit was tailored or he'd got
unbelievably lucky at the store, and it didn't look cheap enough to be store-
bought.

Xiu was nearly as out of touch with fashion as she was with men, given that
the inspirations for the styles that had inspired the inspirations for the
previous generation's inspirations hadn't even been three seasons away when
she left, but there was something almost… _Qinis_ about the cut of it. She'd
seen a gaggle of three of them once, parading down a station concourse, as
tall and flimsy and decorative as orchids, and the ornate fascinators they'd
been wearing seemed to have inspired elements of the man's lapels and the
subtle patterning around the hem of his jacket.

As slick and expensive as the suit was, the man wearing it had a kind of
rough-and-ready, stubbled look, including a peculiar scar - a lattice of slim
white lines slightly forward of his left temple.

She addressed her mother in Mandarin. "Who's this?" she asked. "Another
reporter? Please, mom, I don't want to talk to him."

Amazingly, he replied perfectly in the same language. "I'm not a reporter,
Miss Chang. Nothing to worry about there."

It took her a second to realise that he'd lacked any kind of an accent at all,
which was a trait characteristic of translator devices, and sure enough when
she glanced at the table there was a small silver cube there which was almost
certainly exactly that.

She spared herself an irritated blush by muttering something about needing a
shower, and vanished upstairs.

Once clean, she changed into her loose grey sweatpants and a white ribbed vest
top, then lurked in her spartan bedroom in the hope that he'd go away. No such
luck - eventually, there was a knock on the door.

Li Chang stuck his head around his daughter's door. "You may want to talk to
this one." he told her, gently. Xiu sighed.

"Do I have to?" she asked. "I've spoken to the intelligence people, the
doctors, the news…"

"I don't think he's going to be asking the same questions." her father said.
"I say give him a chance."

She scooted up the bed and sat against the wall, acutely aware that she was
behaving like a girl half her age. "Fine, okay…"

A minute or so later, the stranger knocked on the door and entered on her
reluctant welcome. He'd taken the jacket off at some point, and Xiu had to
admit, she hadn't anticipated the large tattoo that seemed to completely cover
his right arm. To her irritation, he took one look at the bare walls and floor
and chuckled.

"Something funny?" she asked him.

"Hey, we seem to have got off on the wrong foot there. I'm sorry about that."
the man said. It had been _years_ since she'd last heard a Texan accent. He
cast about for something to sit down on, then gave up and offered her a hand
to shake. "Kevin."

She shook it, deciding that she could be polite at least. "Xiu."

"Yeah, sorry. I shouldn't have laughed, but I did the exact same thing when
_I_ got back too."

When Xiu just frowned at him, he waved a hand at the pronounced lack of items
that her cleanup had left behind. "This. You spend a few years living out
among the stars surrounded by all those critters with nothing but what you're
carrying… Get home, kinda feels like all that stuff ain't _yours_ no more,
doesn't it?"

"So you're Kevin Jenkins." She guessed, finally recognising him and irritated
at the too-smooth attempt to identify with her. "I thought I recognised you
from somewhere. The Gaoians showed me that news report you were in: You're the
reason it took me this long to get back. You're the reason I had to spend all
that time in disguise, and running."

"Aww come on, be fair." he complained. "It's not like I _ordered_ the Guvnurag
to put that forcefield up there! And I sure as hell didn't order the Dominion
to start throwing folks to the wolves."

"You ran your mouth off."

He exhaled, and lowered himself onto the floor. "Maybe I did." he agreed. "I
never thought it'd… Didn't _you_ ever say something out there that maybe
scared somebody, or they took it the wrong way?"

Xiu didn't answer. "What do you want?" she asked instead.

"Jeez, lady, why the third degree?"

"Really? You can't see how it's maybe a _bit_ frustrating how people in suits
keep showing up who want to talk to me and ask me questions? And the question
is never _'what can I do for you, Miss Chang?'_ or '_Yes, about your resume,
we have need of a Gaoian language expert for this movie we're making, are you
interested in auditioning?'_ No. Every time, _every_ time, it's something
people want me to do for them!"

Jenkins just watched her, warily. He was doing that Corti analysis thing
again, so Xiu scooted forward on the bed, planted her feet on the floor and
gave him her best glare. "So go on then. What. Do. You. Want?"

He considered his answer carefully, licking his teeth as he looked around the
room.

"Full disclosure." he said, at last. "First of all, you've gotta know from the
news thingy that I'm an old friend of Kirk's and… yeah, I guess I'd sure like
to hear news about him. That's my personal reason for coming here.
Professionally…"

"I knew it."

"_Professionally_," Jenkins forged ahead. "We have need, yes, of a Gaoian
language expert. And an extraterrestrial survival expert, somebody who can
live on a ship without much in the way of possessions-" he swept a hand
demonstratively around the room "-basically, somebody with your skill set."

Xiu glowered at him. "A spaceship?" she asked. "You're offering me a job on a
spaceship?"

"Yeah."

"Why would I want to leave?" She asked. "I only just got back!"

Jenkins gave her another calculating stare, then stood up.

"…I know those scars on your arm." he said, causing her to glance
unconsciously at them. "A Hunter gave you those, I've seen their teeth right
up close and personal. And that on your neck is where some fella had a knife
to your throat. Up against a wall, if I'm any judge. Seen _that_ plenty of
times too. Scary place, this galaxy of ours. Ain't it?"

"Get out."

"You look at people like the Corti do too, you know."

A sick, cold ball of anger dropped right into Xiu's stomach. "…What?"

"When you walked in, first thing you did was… _evaluate_ me. Calculate. And I
_saw_ you see me do the same to you, and I saw you didn't like it. And I get
why. Don't much care for those little gray assholes myself, not after they
bolted a prototype implant to my head like something out of the Terminator.
I'm sorry, it's nothing personal. Just a survival habit both you and me picked
up out there."

When Xiu didn't say anything, he apparently took it for permission to keep
talking. "And then you come back here and it's not like you imagined, is it?"
he asked, rhetorically. "You imagined it'd all be your old bed and your ma's
cooking and then it turns out: things have moved on. The world's changed. And
home turns out to be a place in your head, that you can't ever go back to,
because those gray motherfuckers took it from you and you won't _ever_ get it
back. Believe me, I tried."

Oblivious or uncaring of her mounting rage, he pressed the point. "I thought
Earth was home too. but you and me? We were out there too long and it changed
us. And guess what?! You weren't here for _their_ lives either! My daughter
grew up, and so did your little brother. We both missed weddings, one of your
friends died while you were gone…"

Xiu erupted to her feet and punched him full in the nose, breaking it. He
staggered against the wall and clamped a hand over the sudden blood flow. He
was too preoccupied with pain and surprise to say anything but he still
managed to stare a wide-eyed question at her.

"I don't know _who_ you think you are, and I don't care." she snarled at him.
"You don't know me, you _don't_ know what I went through, _don't_ try to… to
_project_ your baggage onto me and don't you dare, _don't you DARE_ try to
_use_ me like that, you… you **_creep!"_**

He shouldered himself off the wall. "Y'don't think mebbe that was a bit of an
overreaction?" he mumbled through his hand, feigning bravado.

"Who told you you could come into _my house_ and treat me like a _prize?!_"
Xiu prodded his chest. **_"Nobody_** gets to do that! Not _you_, not
_anybody_."

"An' here I was thinkin' we were makin' a connection." Jenkins muttered as he
adjusted his grip, wincing as he pinched his nostrils shut.

"You came to my _house_." Xiu repeated. "You tricked my _parents_. You tried
to manipulate me, you tried to get inside my head. You tried to use _these-_"
she gestured at the ragged scar lines on her arm, and to the tiny cut on her
throat "-to make me do what you want? My answer is **_NO._** You go away
_right now!"_

Jenkins nodded and opened the door. "Offer of a job still stands." he croaked.

"Then get somebody who can treat me like a _human being_ rather than an
_objective_ to put it in writing!" Xiu snapped. "Get. Out."

She slammed the door behind him, catching him in the backside and
congratulating herself as she heard him _barely_ avoid falling down the
stairs.

Then she sank onto the bed. She was shaking and crying when her parents rushed
in seconds later.

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Staggering across the road while holding his nose together nearly earned Kevin
a car to the knee. He raised an apologetic hand to the driver - the other one
being clamped around his bleeding nose adequately made the case that he was
slightly preoccupied right now - and made it to his own car, fumbled with the
door sensor and thumped down onto the driver seat.

He sat there pinching his nostrils and swearing for a good ten minutes before
he was finally satisfied that the bleeding had ceased.

He pulled down the sun visor and peered into its makeup mirror. The nose
wasn't crooked at least, but it _was_ bruised, there were dark splotches under
his eyes for good measure, and his shirt was in dire need of a dry-cleaner's
attention. He touched the nose experimentally, and flinched.

"Way to go, dumbass." he congratulated himself. "Fuckin' perfect."

**Date Point 10y4m1d AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Kirk_**

Kirk had once seen a human documentary in which a team of fishermen had sat
and patiently repaired their nets after a successful trawl. At the time, he
hadn't fully appreciated that, while repairing the net was still massively
less of a task than weaving a new one, it must still be tedious and time-
consuming. After all, only deathworlders would consider it normal for an
_animal_ to damage a net of woven plastic fibers. Doubly so when the animal in
question did so without claws, teeth or a knife, but simply with its own mass
and strength.

To the fisherman, a routine part of the day. To Kirk… more than that.

Mending his own net - the galactic web of contacts, favours called in, bribes
issued and reputations blackmailed that had kept him fed with information from
across Dominion space was… tedious, yes. time-consuming, yes. Fiddly, delicate
and at times frustrating yes. And it was hampered all the more that he had to
do it now at arms' lengths, and through proxies and agents, none of whom could
be allowed to know who he was. The galaxy had not heard from Krrkktnkk
A'ktnnzzik'tk in a long time, and his sudden reappearance could not possibly
pass without comment. The more he achieved before those comments began, the
better.

His time away had changed some of the players, too. Politicians had retired,
criminal figures had been arrested, killed or had wisely resigned into
obscurity before either of those fates caught them. The only solution was to
rebuild, slowly. And while that was a task that by and large was proceeding at
a satisfactory pace, it did often leave him seated by his desk, trying to be
entertained while waiting for a message to arrive.

Right now, he was listening to an audiobook.

_"…unintended effects are always possible. For instance, the most dangerous
road on Earth now appears to be a two-lane highway between Kabul and
Jalalabad. When it was unpaved, cratered, and strewn with boulders it was
comparatively safe. But once some helpful Western contractors improved it, the
driving skills of the local Afghans were finally liberated from the laws of
physics. Many now have a habit of passing slow-moving trucks on blind curves,
only to find themselves suddenly granted a lethally unimpeded view of a
thousand-foot gorge. Are there lessons to be learned from such missteps in the
name of progress? Of course. But they do not negate the reality of progress."_

He paused the book and mulled that thought over, only to be interrupted by
Vedreg.

If Lewis was a study in how humans could absorb massive volumes of information
and correlate them in breathtaking ways, and if Kirk was a living
justification for his species' reputation for shrewdness and politics, Vedreg
was…

Well, he had become very interested in baking.

At first Kirk had been uncharitably scornful of this, but Vedreg had proven
once again that he wasn't actually _stupid_, just… slow.

In English, Kirk knew, the two terms were used more or less as synonyms, but
in the case of Guvnurag, the difference became apparent. Both in matters of
the body and matters of the mind, _nobody_, not even the most inventively
charitable liar, could have realistically described Guvnurag as "fast"… but
they _did_ have inertia, which could be the next best thing. It had certainly
allowed them to outperform the Corti when it came to large forcefield
technology and a few associated technological fields.

The Corti preferred for their research to yield dazzling new inspirations that
could make the researcher's reputation and earn them a promotion. Hard graft
wasn't their style at all, and so in areas where the patient ability to keep
chewing away at the details yielded incremental, cumulative improvements, they
were surprisingly lacking. Guvnurag were all about hard graft. They didn't
have much of an alternative.

And so, while Lewis and Kirk had been blitzing around the station
familiarizing themselves with its layout, its capabilities and its systems,
reinforcing some repairs and, in Lewis' case, a thorough search for terrifying
killing machines… Vedreg had parked himself in an unobtrusive spot and had
_thought_.

He had then, after some trial and error, some research, the assembly of a few
appropriate tools, and raiding the station's food storage stasis lockers,
baked an apple pie.

It wasn't _actually_ an apple pie of course. The nearest apple was tens of
thousands of lightyears away, as was the nearest flour, not to mention the
butter and eggs which neither Kirk nor Vedreg could have eaten anyway. And the
less said about cinnamon, the better.

But, desiccating and then milling down some universal ration spheres had
produced a dry edible powder, and fructose was fructose all over the galaxy,
present in the cuisine of every species (though not, it had to be said, in the
quantities called for by most human recipes: Earth's deathworld conditions had
caused plants to evolve that could generate sugar in terrifying quantities
that had never been available to nonhuman chefs)

The real key to the dish, however, was a type of fruit called a "Rhwk", the
flesh of which was tart, sweet and not dissimilar to an apple in texture and
culinary properties. Rhwk had long been a firm favourite of Kwmbwrw
gastronomes, but Vedreg's genius had been to recognise that the slimy fluid
core of the fruit and the oily substance that protected its seed were
acceptable matches for egg and butter respectively.

The result was… a failure. An abject one. What the oven eventually belched out
had turned out to be a monstrosity of black caramelized fruit sugars and a
"pastry" substitute that fell apart at a suspicious glance.

The second attempt had been marginally more successful. The third, practically
intact.

The fourth had been a pie. Not, according to Lewis, an _apple_ pie - the taste
apparently had more in common with something called "grapefruit" \- but still
very pleasing to the palate.

Once the basic principle of the pastry was down, Vedreg had thrown himself
into his baking with gusto. Lewis had complained about the enforced vegan diet
at one point, but the nauseated signals he'd received from both of the
obligate herbivores on the crew had induced him to drop the subject.

In any case, Vedreg's offerings had grown commendably in complexity and skill,
and he made BIG portions, the smallest of which wound up on Kirk's plate. It
was slightly disconcerting to see that Lewis ate slightly more than Vedreg,
despite being roughly a tenth of Vedreg's mass.

He also tended to the running of the place. Thanks to Vedreg, the station was
clean, the lighting was powered, mealtimes were scheduled. By taking over in
keeping Lewis fit and healthy, he had created time for Kirk to complete _his_
objectives, and during the two days every week that Vedreg spent hibernating,
the place noticeably went downhill. Despite all that, it hadn't clicked for
Kirk what it was that his friend was doing until the day Lewis had referred to
him affectionately as "Jeeves".

Vedreg, of course, had needed the reference explained. Hence why he was now
pulsing purple-blue in amused confusion while watching "A Bit of Fry and
Laurie."

Lewis meanwhile was enjoying his weekly break from study to watch it alongside
him. He had climbed - carefully - onto Vedreg's wide back and was grinning at
the comedy.

"I do not understand" Vedreg said. "His name is to drop a small object? It is…
absurd."

"That's the point, dude, yeah. It's surreal."

"This word _'sur-u-ree-lu'_ does not translate."

"Aww, man, we're getting pretty abstract here. Surreal is like… when things
are like, reality but _wrong_ in some way. Bizarre."

"I do not understand." Vedreg repeated.

"Humor never translates." Kirk told them both. "Ever."

"Oh please, that's bullshit. We're all sapient, we're all similar."

"Our friend Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk is correct, Lewis." Vedreg rumbled. "I do
not understand human humor, and you will not understand the humor of the
Guvnuragnaguvendrugun."

"Alright, bring it. Hit me with your best joke, Jeeves." Lewis challenged him.
He sat up and - carefully, so as not to injure - slid down off Vedreg's back.

"Very well… hmm… " Vedreg rumbled a Guvnurag throat-clear. "Tiny Geverednig
goes to her herd-father and declares: _'largest one! I am thirsty!'_ \- The
herd-father points to the mountain."

Kirk and Lewis exchanged mutual bewildered expressions as Vedreg glowed royal
purple and produced a wheezing sound deep in his chest - his species' version
of uproarious laughter.

Slowly, he faded. "Do… do you not see? Largest one? The mountain?"

"…My turn." Lewis said. "Uh… Three men walk into a bar. You'd think one of
them would have seen it!"

He smiled hopefully as it was Vedreg and Kirk's turn to express confusion. "I
guess… puns probably don't work so well. Okay how about an anti-joke?"

"Anti-joke?" Vedreg asked.

"Okay, so… _'What's so funny about a shuttle full of Corti exploding?'_"

Vedreg flashed alarmed white. "…I can see nothing amusing in that scenario! It
would be a tragic loss of sapient life."

Lewis sagged. "Uh… yes. Exactly. That's the punchline."

"I am confused." Vedreg told him.

"Okay, okay, I know. How about-?"

"My turn." Kirk interrupted. "And this should prove my point."

Lewis sighed. "Fiiiine."

Kirk nodded at length. "Somewhere deep in space, a freighter picks up a
distress beacon." he began. "They rescue the escape pod and are pleased to
find that the occupant is a fellow Rrrrtktktkp'ch. They explain that, sadly,
their freighter is a slow one and that it will be many _rikat_ before they
next arrive at port, but the castaway is simply grateful for the rescue."

"At mealtime, the four of them sit down to enjoy _Cqcq_ and _Zrrk_, in welcome
to their new guest. Just as they have begun to eat, the captain says:
_'Twelve._' his two crewmates laugh, and one replies _'Eight.'_ to further
merriment. Naturally, this confuses the newcomer, who requests an
explanation."

"_'We have worked together for hundreds of rik'_, the captain explains. _'We
all know each others' jokes by now, and so it is more efficient to refer to
them by number.'_ The newcomer nods his understanding and falls silent."

"Shortly thereafter, he looks around and ventures: _'Fifteen?'_. There is no
response. _'Nine?'_ \- Still nothing. Exasperated, he asks what he is doing
wrong."

"The junior deckhand shakes his mane sadly and informs him: _'Your delivery is
terrible.'_"

Vedreg promptly signalled blue confusion, but Lewis' lips drew back into an
imposing Deathworlder smile and he made a kind of wheezing noise that it took
Kirk seconds to identify as a laugh. "Oh man… Oh… yeah. Yeah okay. That's a
good'n."

"It seems I was wrong." Kirk observed, deeply surprised. "You understood?"

"Heh, yeah. Your own delivery was pretty good."

"What does delivery have to do with-?" Vedreg began, then sagged when Lewis
and Kirk both turned to look at him. "…The herd is following a truly ancient
father when four _Mumruvnede_ fly overhead. The oldest child cries: _'Face the
wind!'_?" He ventured, hopefully.

"…Was that a fart joke?" Lewis asked. "That was a fart joke!"

"…as a matter of fact it was." Vedreg agreed, turning a slightly embarrassed
shade of magenta.

"See! there IS universal humour!" Lewis turned and grinned triumphantly.

Kirk held up all four hands in defeat, and then handed him a tablet. "And
while we were joking around…" he said "…contact has been made with Earth."

Lewis grabbed it. "Yeah? What'd they say?"

"Nothing yet. This is all information on how to establish a secure line of
communication. I imagine that we will hear more in due course but for now…
it's a start."

Lewis sighed. "Frustrating." he declared.

"But vital."

"I know, I know…" Lewis stood up. "Arright, in that case I'ma call it a night.
See you tomorrow."

They bade him goodnight, and Vedreg pulsed through a thoughtful rainbow of
blues and oranges. "Did he seem… upset by that, to you?" He asked.

"He is lonely." Kirk replied. "Humans are intensely social creatures, old
friend."

"I feel the call of my home planet also." Vedreg replied. "It is… stressful to
be so far from my herd."

"The difference, old friend, is that herd species feel comforted by each
others' presence, but do not _care_ for one another in quite the same way that
humans do." Kirk replied. "He is suffering… it makes me feel guilty."

"You _have_ confined us all." Vedreg agreed. "Even if for good reasons."

Kirk shook his coat out a little. "I have total confidence in Lewis." he said.
"He will find a solution, and we will be able to send him home."

"An alternative approach suggests itself, Krrkktnkk A'ktnnzzik'tk."

"And that is?"

Vedreg shone a brilliant cyan, as if the answer was obvious. "Bring more
humans here."

**Date Point 10y4m1d AV**

**North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

_"So what's the place look like?"_

Allison was on a train in the UK \- Julian could see green fields and more
black-and-white cows than a sane nation should allow rushing past the back of
her head, interrupted by occasional white cottages, trees and brick railside
buildings.

Julian shrugged and aimed his own phone around the room. It was essentially
unchanged from the last time he'd stood in it, except… colder, and lifeless.
Without the gentle sounds of a house being lived in, rather than being
comfortably cluttered, it felt more like a museum locked up at night.

"It held up okay considering it's gone without maintenance for a couple
years…" He conceded. "But it's not the same without Grampa."

_"He had a lot of stuff!"_ Allison commented, bringing her phone closer to her
face.

This was an understatement for the ages. Grampa E had been Navajo, Julian's
grandma had been equal parts Ojibwe and French, both of them had identified as
American first and foremost, and _neither_ of them had been afraid to collect
keepsakes throughout their long and fascinating lives.

The result was that the rich green walls were almost totally obscured by
photos, artwork and decorations, no two items of which matched. Three huge
glass-fronted cabinets were stuffed full of whatever ornaments couldn't hang
on the walls, and that was without accounting for the iron pans hung on the
walls by the fridge, the herb-drying rack above the kitchen island, the
commemorative plates above the door, the cookie jar, three recliners, a futon,
a coffee table with a humidor full of premium cigars tucked under it, and a TV
as big as a ping-pong table. To this last was attached a venerable Sega
Genesis - Julian's favourite childhood plaything and already quite obsolete by
the time he'd first picked up its controllers.

And that was just the big front room. The two bedrooms were equally cluttered,
even the bathroom hadn't escaped becoming a repository for decorative knick-
knacks, and the utility room leading out to the back door was home to a drift
of koozies, a stack of tackle boxes, and a gun locker layered in stickers and
whatever magnets hadn't been able to find a home either on the fridge in the
kitchen or the freezers in the garage.

The less said about the unlimited salvage opportunities presented by the
recesses of said garage, the better.

"Yup." Julian agreed.

_"What are you gonna do with it?"_

"Shit, Al. Don't ask me right now, I'm still… I still expect the old man to
come shuffling out of the garage, you know?"

She moved the phone away from her face. _"…I'm sorry, baby. He meant a lot to
you, huh?"_

"He raised me." Julian shrugged. "I don't even know. I love this place but
it's kind of the ass-end of nowhere. The land's not worth much, and if we do
go back out into space again then I'm not going to be here enough to look
after it properly. There's a pickup out there that I can probably resurrect,
and two more that I probably can't…"

_"You've gotta start somewhere, though?"_ She asked.

"I already did. Cleared out all the spoiled food from the freezers, lit some
scented candles… place doesn't stink of three-year-old fish any more at
least."

_"Jesus."_

"Yeah."

_"So what's next?"_

"Got a message this morning that my dead letter's waiting for me." Julian
said. "Figured I'd go pick that up, grab some essentials from the store, maybe
have a campfire and s'mores."

_"Aww man, s'mores? You're having s'mores without me?"_ Allison pouted, then
giggled. She glanced behind her and realised that the pastoral landscape
outside was now unambiguously urban. _"Aaand I think this is Birmingham. I'd
better get ready."_

"Good luck, Al. I miss you."

_"Miss you too, Etsicitty."_ she wrinkled her nose at him affectionately.
_"You behave yourself 'til I get back, hear?"_

"Yes ma'am."

_"SO hot."_ She blew a kiss and ended the call.

There was nothing quite like having a gorgeous woman describe him as "hot" to
boost Julian's ego. Grinning, he grabbed his jacket and keys and headed out to
where his rented truck was parked outside. That was one thing to say for the
old place - you could have parked a couple of eighteen-wheelers outside with
room left over to land a helicopter. An SUV, three pickups and a by-now
thoroughly immobile ancient tractor weren't taking up even half the available
parking space.

He entertained himself for about half the long drive to town by perusing the
local radio offerings before deciding that, time zones or not, Vancouver was
probably fully awake right now.

He called Xiu.

There was a smile in her voice when she answered. _"Hey!"_

"Hey you." he smiled too. "Just checking in. You okay?"

_"Eh… my day started off pretty crappy."_ she conceded. _"But… yes, I'm okay
now. You?"_

"Pretty good. Place is in better shape than I thought. I just need to pack it
up and sort a few things out then… well, I'll have plenty of time to decide
what I'm doing with it. What was crappy?"

_"Nothing I want to talk about, just…"_ she sighed _"…people."_

Julian chuckled. "I hear ya." he agreed. "When're you going to come down and
look at this place?"

_"The ARP haven't come through yet, so I don't exactly have a lot of money…"_
she demurred. _"Please tell me you're planning to come back up here though…"_

He couldn't contain a quiet, affectionate half-laugh. "Yes, Xiu, we're coming
back up there." he reassured, teasing her with a patient tone. He heard a
slight laugh from her end of the phone. "Like I said, once I'm done packing
the place up we'll have plenty of time to think."

_"Good. I-I, um…"_

"What?"

_"…I think I really need you. Both of you, Allison and you."_

Julian ran a tongue across his lips, trying to think of what to say. "That
bad?" he asked.

_"I'm… yeah."_

"Okay… look, it's going to be a little while yet. There's a lot to do. So I
tell you what, if you need to? You just come down here. You know where I live
- I'll pay for it."

Xiu paused long enough for Julian to come to a halt at a stop sign, where he
exchanged slight nods of mutual recognition with a lurking state trooper
before turning right and heading for Clearbrook.

_"Julian… are you sure?"_ she asked at last.

"Hey." he told her, warmly, deciding not to mention that his and Allison's
hazard pay plus their accumulated salary from serving on _Sanctuary_ meant
that Xiu's travel expenses wouldn't even noticeably dent his savings. "Don't
worry about it. If you need to come down here, you do it. Okay? I'll take care
of you. Of it."

There was no reply.

"…Xiu?"

_"Mi, yi sher-yan ina mo."_

Julian frowned. "Was that Gaoian?"

_"Uh… yeah. Sorry. Th-thank you, Julian."_

"For you, anything." he promised.

She made some kind of a noise, one he couldn't quite discern the meaning of.
It might have been a sigh, might have been a laugh, might have been the
disintegrating beginning of a weak "um…": it wasn't at all clear.

_"I'd… better help my mom cook."_ she declared. _"It's good to, uh, to spend
time with her."_

"Sure. Have fun, you."

_"And you…"_

She was silent for a long few seconds before she finally hung up.

Aside from drumming his fingers thoughtfully on the wheel, Julian drove the
rest of the way into town cloaked in contemplative silence and no small amount
of guilt. Two things were becoming increasingly apparent: that Xiu was
harbouring a large and growing crush on him… and that the feeling was mutual.

Considering his committed relationship with Allison, that part was hard to
feel good about, and he'd have much preferred to raise it with Allison before
now, if only there had been an opportunity. but in the hospital hadn't seemed
right, and over the phone while she was abroad? Even worse.

He checked the dashboard clock and performed a few mental calculations. He had
about four days to go before Allison got back from the UK. He made his plan:
After she got back from England, they'd go back to Grampa E's place, he'd make
her s'mores, they'd cuddle by the fire… and he'd confess. See how it went.

It sounded so simple, put that way. Like there was no big deal involved.

_"Sure, Etsicitty."_ he muttered. _"No big deal at all."_

Clearbrook post office was pretty much unchanged from the last time he'd seen
it. Same red brick construction, same flat roof, same flagpole and the words
"United States Post Office" in steel letters on the corner of the building.
The road had been resurfaced and given a fresh set of bright yellow lines and
the trees were all a bit taller, but otherwise…

He parked up, headed indoors, and found it thankfully empty. The postal worker
was a rotund middle-aged woman with candy-red dyed hair in a tight ponytail
and enormous spectacles, who gave him a welcoming smile. Her name tag
identified her as 'Caroline'

"Hi! What can I do for you?" she asked.

"Hi, uh… Julian Etsicitty, I'm here for my dead letter?"

She froze. "Oh… Oh, honey, I'm so sorry."

"Why, what happened?"

"Well nothing _happened_, I mean, it's all here… all of it…" She recovered
herself and produced a form for him to sign - ten years and change into the
extraterrestrial contact age and the United States Postal Service still hadn't
weaned itself off hardcopy paperwork - checked his ID then vanished to stamp
and file the form. "Head on out front, I'll bring it round."

"You'll bring it rou-?" Julian frowned at her as she vanished through a door,
then did as she said, heading back out into the parking lot.

After a minute of confused waiting, he became aware of a sort of… rumbling
sound.

This turned out to be Caroline, dragging behind her a pallet jack, onto which
was loaded a crate full of more USPS totes than Julian would have considered
plausible.

"That's… that's my mail?" he asked, flatly.

"This is your mail." Caroline agreed.

"All of that?"

"All of it. Yyyup."

Sarcasm, or some kind of witty remark, was the order of the day. This whole
situation was crying out for Julian to keep a cool head and deliver some kind
of suave joke. He ran a hand through his hair and tried his best to compose
one.

"Uh… Wow."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ayma_**

The human male that Regaari kept calling "Warhorse" was fretting like a
particularly neurotic Mother. This was, apparently, his job and Regaari had
assured Ayma that he was extremely good at it.

Still. On some level, seeing this much attentive concern from a creature who
was strong enough to accidentally dismember her was doing little to fill Ayma
with confidence. All devotion to Clan aside, now that the moment had come to
actually _go to Earth…_

It was after all now well established that Earth wasn't merely a Class Twelve,
a full two points of habitability rating worse than the minimum threshold for
deathworld status, but it was a _high end_ Class Twelve, spared only from
Class Thirteen status by a quirk of Corti bias more than anything else. Earth
was, in fact, possibly the most relentlessly and reliably lethal planet in the
galaxy.

When faced with stepping onto a world with that kind of reputation, the fact
that she was trusting her life and health to a harness of forcefields and
localized gravity manipulation fields was… Well, it made human paranoia
suddenly seem rather less unreasonable.

Regaari, as ever, was the picture of composure and calm, but she knew him well
enough to detect a slight… fidgety edge. Whatever had happened to him on
Garden had clearly solidified in him an absolute trust in these "Spaceborne
Operators", but even that wasn't quite enough to completely quiet pre-
deathworld jitters.

Warhorse himself was an incredible specimen. He was actually slightly shorter
than Ayma, but there couldn't be a millisecond of doubt as to which of them
was stronger, heavier and more durable. Ayma had seen flimsier _walls_, and he
was casually holding in one hand a bag that she privately doubted that she and
Regaari could have lifted between them.

Baseball was standing nearby, calmly reading off a checklist. None of the
words he was reading translated.

"Epinephrin."

Warhorse tapped some ampules in a quick-access pocket on his chest. "Check."

"Cetrizine."

"Check."

"Thiperamide."

"Blue and green band, yeah?"

"That's right."

"Check."

"Morphine."

"ET dosage three, check."

"Nitroglycerin."

Regaari peered at him. "Wait, _what?!_"

"Relax, it's a vasodilator." Warhorse held up a calming hand. "ET intravenous
dosage three. Check."

_"Intravenous?_ **_Nitroglycerin?!"_**

"Could save your life, man, God forbid. Trust us, and let us concentrate,
yeah?"

"Sorry."

Base smiled at him. "Last item anyway. Salbutamol?"

Horse nodded. "Check."

He stood and slung the bag on with alarming ease. "Protectors ready." he
announced.

"Good."

Major Powell had taken up the duty of delivering the Gaoians to Earth himself.
The preparations had taken some days and no small amount of politicking, but
the plan seemed to be perfectly solid and sound. Ayma and Regaari would
constantly wear Akiyama's custom-built excursion rigs, designed to counter the
Earth's oppressive gravity and filter out every wriggling bacterium and
allergenic granule that poisoned its atmosphere.

The SOR's "Defenders" had ingeniously packed on extra protection in the form
of biofilter fields that charged from sunlight before sweeping their bodies
clean of infection, and stasis field generators that would, in the event of a
medical emergency, allow the wearer to be delivered safely to a class ten
medical facility.

Finally, each Gaoian was to be shadowed by a medic. Friendly as they were,
Warhorse and Baseball had stressed that the moment they jumped to Earth, both
of them were going to be focusing intently and exclusively on their charges'
good health, and were not going to be much fun to hang out with.

All things considered, Ayma was almost getting… what was the term? Cold feet.

Almost.

Powell gestured with two pinched fingers to somebody outside of the marked
jump array area - an ingenious idea that Ayma was going to be sharing with
Yulna when she got back. Why should Mothers and cubs be exposed to the dangers
of piracy, illegal research facilities and Hunters when they could just _step_
from one planet, straight to another?

She felt her fur bristling. There was a whine, on the very edge of hearing,
the feeling of building energy reached a peak and-

-She was on Earth.

She could tell it instantly. Even with her excursion harness protecting her
from feeling the extra gravity herself, there was just an extra _solidity_ to
everything. Warhorse and Baseball both adjusted their loads slightly, Powell's
stance settled and widened. The humans to a man seemed immediately just a
little more comfortable, a little more relaxed. Those high-gravity
deathworlder muscles had been straining against gravity that wasn't there, and
now seemed to actually be grateful for the added burden.

Unexpectedly, they also sped up. While Ayma's own movements felt ponderous and
slow, and the suit just couldn't disguise the way her foot dropped to the
floor faster than was normal, the humans got…

She searched for an appropriate adjective and settled on _"punchier."_ They
walked with a little more precision, their heads tracked faster as they looked
around, and all of their little gestures and mannerisms just seemed to _fit_
that tiny bit better, as if the mere fact that the planet they stood on was
both larger and denser than the norm had been written into their body
language.

Powell took a deep breath and smiled. "Like soup, innit lads?" he asked. Ayma
imitated him and nearly reeled. The air was warm, humid, and _rich_, rich to
the point of intoxication. _Higher oxygen content,_ she recalled, and a memory
stirred that in its primordial past Earth's atmosphere had been richer, warmer
and more oxygenated still, allowing for flying insects and land animals of
incomprehensible bulk.

The filters must have been working, though. Aside from the tang of humidity,
there was no discernable scent on what she was breathing.

The Protectors seemed satisfied that she and Regaari were well, at least, and
indicated that the door could be opened.

Admiral Knight had gone on ahead the evening before, and was standing next to
a shorter, rather sturdier man that Ayma didn't know whose hair put her in
mind of brushed steel, but who was smiling warmly.

Powell raised his voice enough to be firm: "Detail, ten-_shut!"_

Warhorse and Baseball all snapped fully upright, bringing their heels together
and straightening their spines. it was an impressive gesture given that both
Protectors were solidly layered in armour and equipment.

Powell offered a salute. "Sir. The special representatives from Gao, as
ordered."

The man he was addressing returned the salute. "Thank you Major. Your men may
carry on."

Powell nodded to the Protectors, and both of them promptly returned their full
attention to Regaari and Ayma.

"Mother Ayma, Officer Regaari," he announced "This is Lieutenant-General
Martin Tremblay, Supreme Allied Commander for Extrasolar Defence."

Tremblay offered a hand and shook their paws, rather more delicately than he
needed to. "This day's been too long in coming." he smiled. "I've spent so
long reading about the Gaoian people and what you personally did for one of
ours that it's a genuine pleasure and a privilege to finally meet you in
person."

Ayma felt her ears twist, feeling genuinely and awkwardly complimented. "Shoo
always insisted there was nothing special about her." she replied,
diplomatically. "If that is true, then I must consider the pleasure and the
privilege to be greater on my part."

She caught the amused and impressed set of Regaari's ears out of the corner of
her eye, but Tremblay's reaction was even more interesting. "Please, don't
waste a sound-bite like that on me!" he laughed. "Save it for the cameras.
Sorry we couldn't spare you those entirely, but the first official visit to
the surface of Earth by nonhumans? That was never _not_ going to be a media
party."

Had he been Gaoian, Ayma decided that she would already be contemplating a
mating contract. Instead, she made a reassuring purr.

Admiral Knight nodded solemnly. "The sooner we get that particular ordeal out
of the way the better, I say." he suggested.

"Agreed." Tremblay nodded. "Let's get this over with."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**  
**Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Wei Chang_**

Xiu had gone very small, and very quiet.

Wei wished he knew how to talk with her. But every conversation they'd tried
to have ever since she came back just… tailed off. The elephant in the room
between them - the confusion of their relative ages in terms of date of birth
versus the number of years they had each lived - never got addressed.

It was so sad seeing Mom try and pretend like nothing had happened. Dad
somehow seemed to be taking things in his stride, but he'd become… sad. After
the initial joy and worry of Xiu's return, their dad had been behaving like he
was mourning something rather than anything else.

Wei just felt like there was a stranger living in their house who'd thrown out
all of Xiu's old stuff. A quiet, intense stranger who watched things a little
too carefully, who flinched at benign sounds, and who occasionally spoke the
wrong language without noticing.

There was still the essential Xiu there, of course - when she could be induced
to smile, she came alive again, and she never became more radiant than when
she was talking to this "Julian" guy. Under the patina that years of being a
terrified vagrant in space had painted on her, Xiu could still smile and laugh
and play. But Wei had no idea how to get past that patina himself.

Their parents were bustling around making sure the house looked perfectly
presentable for their VIP guests, and a couple of men in suits and dark
glasses were patrolling the place. When Wei and Xiu had tried to help they'd
just been ordered to stay out of the way and stay presentable.

So, they were sitting on the couch together, watching the visitors from Gao on
TV while Wei trawled his favourite social media, following the trending topics
and trying not to rumple his smart clothes. Mom had taken Xiu out shopping and
together they'd found some designer tops that managed to cover all her scars
without looking like she was wearing them _because_ they would cover her
scars. Xiu kept absent-mindedly trying to roll up the loose sleeves, not
noticing that they just fell straight back down again.

The general consensus on the 'net was:

  1. That Gaoians were OMG SO CUUUUUUTE!!

  2. Are you fucking kidding me they really do look like Rocket Raccoon WTF

  3. Who are those guys in the armor behind the gaoins their HUGE?!

Some speed artist was already putting out hastily sketched comics of the two
aliens with their beefslab bodyguards. They all revolved around the
(exaggerated) size difference and grim expressions on the servicemen's faces
as they did things like delicately and intensely apply a band-aid to a
grateful Gaoian's minor boo-boo. Wei had a nose for these things, and he'd eat
his sneakers if those two weren't one of the memorable memes of the year.

Some of the military enthusiast circles and forums he'd found were tentatively
identifying them as part of a unit based at HMNB Folctha. Their uniforms had
been "sanitized", meaning that they had been cleared of any identifiable unit
markings or clues to their identities. The only thing any of the Internet
enthusiasts could tell about them was that they were both medics. To a man,
all of the veterans on those forums were commenting on how they seemed to be
practically buoyant and bouncing despite an operating load that must have been
pushing two hundred pounds. As if they were used to much more than that.

As they watched the camera focused on the male Gaoian - Regaari - behind whom
stood the shorter of the two bodyguards who chose that exact moment to absent-
mindedly conjure a Snickers bar out of one of his pockets and inhale it. The
live chat promptly went crazy.

"That's Sergeant Ares." Xiu said, pointing to the screen. "He's the one who
treated me out of the escape pod."

"Yeah?"

"…Saved my life." Xiu nodded, gnawing on a lip.

"He's hot." Wei commented, and for the first time he succeeded in making Xiu
laugh.

"What, you're into boys now, little brother?" she asked.

"Please, I'm allowed to know these things, like, academically." Wei told her.

Xiu smiled, and went back to watching the screen, quietly. Her smile faded
again.

"…Xiu, are you okay?"

She shook her head. "No."

"…Is there anything I can do?"

Xiu gave him a surprised look. Tears started welling up and she savagely got
rid of them with a swipe of her hand, muttering something to herself in Gaori.
_"Wi-yo koo yin-shao pa, Xiu!_"

"Hey…?"

She raised a splay-fingered hand to reassure him, and took a deep calming
breath through her nose. "…I'm sorry, Wei,"

"What for?"

"I don't know how to cope" She said. "I'm a wreck."

Wei shuffled over and put a brotherly arm around her. "I missed you, you
know." he said, after a while. "We used to fight all the time. Didn't we?"

She laughed weakly and nodded.

"You had your ballet and kung fu movies, I had my games. Not a lot in common
except Mom and Dad and living in the same house. And now you're back and we
know each other even less."

Again, she nodded.

"…I don't know what I'm saying." Wei confessed. "I just… What's wrong? Why
aren't you okay?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know at all?"

She sighed, and wiped her face again. "Ayma and Regaari were my family out
there." she said "And I ran away from them, to keep them safe. And they've
come _here_ to _Earth_. To see _me!"_

Not knowing what to say, Wei just gave her another squeeze round the
shoulders. Xiu just watched the two Gaoians deliver brief and neutral speeches
of thanks and respect, before the press conference broke up. "I guess they're
on their way here then." he observed.

Xiu stood up. "Yeah." she agreed. "Yaaay."

"Hey… Xiu?"

"Yeah?"

"Maybe just… try being glad to see them?" Wei suggested.

She just sighed, shook her head, and vanished upstairs.

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**

**North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Radio wasn't really Kevin's thing, and that went double for country stations.
There was only so much Kacey Musgraves a man could listen to, after all.

Not that this mattered for a modern man. So long as he had his phone, he could
listen to whatever he wanted, whenever he wanted.

_♪♫It was obvious you'd end this way to everyone except for you / the signs
were there but living in denial is just something you do / I walk amongst the
ruins and what's left is a silent testament / to ignorance violent tendencies
and stupid rhetoric…♫♪_

_"In a quarter of a mile, your destination is on the right."_

He slowed down, frowning, and triple-tapped the middle of his phone's screen
to pause the music. Quarter of a mile looked like a sizeable oblong stand of
deciduous forest, alone surrounded by open fields of ploughed farmland.

The road was straight, but the verge wasn't, not perfectly. As he got closer,
he saw that the trees had been hiding a grey steel mailbox with a name on the
side: "Etsicitty".

It stood at the end of a dirt road, which he spun onto and bounced along,
cursing the fact that he was driving a sedan rather than a four-wheel-drive.

It was a dramatic change. In an instant he'd gone from open Minnesotan sky to
a dungeon of trees, trees and, for novelty, some more trees. Bright and clear
as it was out, here on this track the light was much more subdued, cool and
green as it filtered through new spring foliage.

He was just starting to wonder how long the trail was when it opened up into a
cleared area that had been surfaced in packed-down rubble that was almost as
good as blacktop. There was a single-storey house with brown panel siding
tucked up under the trees, attended by three elderly trucks and a rust
sculpture of a tractor that had probably, once, actually _been_ a tractor long
ago.

He pulled up somewhere he wouldn't be in the way and heaved himself up out of
the car. It wasn't _cold_ out, but Minnesota in April was never going to match
a Texan's standards for warmth at any hour, so Kevin was glad for his jacket.

The front door opened as he approached and he recognised Julian Etsicitty from
his file. He was of only average height but in excellent shape, with a broad
chest and wary eyes under unruly obsidian hair that clearly only earned his
attention when it got in his eyes, being otherwise left to do whatever it
liked. He didn't look too great, Kevin decided. Like he hadn't slept properly
in a day or two. Certainly his jeans and T-shirt were rumpled and stained and
he was barefoot, exposing the odd composite construction of his prosthetic.

Still, fatigue and stress or not, Kevin had seen the way his hand moved
before. The nonchalant way it drifted down and aside slightly so that if he
_had_ to go for the survival tomahawk on his belt, he could do so immediately.

"What happened to your nose?" he asked.

"Said the wrong thing to somebody" Kevin replied. "Julian Etsicitty, I
presume?"

Etsicitty didn't relax. "Yeah?"

"I'm an old friend of Kirk's. Kevin Jenkins."

Julian relaxed. "No shit? Come on in." He unlocked the screen door and
shouldered it open. It produced a horrible scratching shriek as he did so.
"Sorry. Still fixing the place up."

"Reminds me." Kevin popped the trunk on his car and grabbed the cooler he'd
stashed in there. "My condolences."

Julian accepted it with a kind of sad-grateful smile. "That's kind of you.
Thank you."

"Just a few things. Fill the fridge out, y'know? I know what it's like."

Kevin scolded himself the second he said that. That exact same angle was what
had got his nose busted in Vancouver. Fortunately, for all his wariness Julian
Etsicitty took the comment for genuine sympathy.

He led them both inside. "'Scuse the mess."

_'Mess'_ was both an understatement, and uncharitable. There was more mail
than Kevin would have believed, and it was all over _everything_. The kitchen
worksurfaces, the island, the coffee table and three barstools had all been
given over to it. Still, there was organization involved. The papers were
neatly stacked and arranged and there was clearly some kind of filing system
involved, an attempt to bring order to chaos.

"Jeez. That's a lot of paper."

"Legal letters. The courts, lawyers for the Red Lake reservation, lawyers for
the county, for the State, the federal attorney handling my grampa's will… all
in conflict." Julian tapped one of the stacks, pulling a slightly panicked
face.

"Damn."

"Yeah. But, you didn't come here for my legal problems. Kirk had a lot to say
about you. Coffee?"

"Yes please. How much of what he had to say was good?"

Julian reached over and clicked the kettle to life. "I think you managed to
disappoint him, but… you know Kirk. If you're human, he likes you
automatically."

"D'you know what happened to him?"

"He _should_ have survived." Julian declared. "Him and Vedreg, they were the
first to head for the escape pods. We didn't hear from them after we launched,
but… you know, we slept for a couple hours there before starting for home."

"Slept?"

"Believe me, after what happened to us, falling asleep just seemed like the
best idea. Ah!"

The exclamation was in response to finally finding the coffee. "How d'you take
it?"

"Plain black. So you reckon he's alive?"

"Probably." Julian said, spooning out the granules. "But we spent five years
in that pod. If he was in one of the faster ones, or if he set a different
course… or both…" The kettle clicked off and he grabbed it to start pouring.
"I mean he could be anywhere. And escape pods are pretty vulnerable to getting
picked off by Hunters…"

"Lucky for him that the Hunters didn't do a dang thing in those five years."
Kevin commented.

Julian handed him a coffee, quirking his head slightly. "They didn't?"

"Nope. Nobody saw or heard from them for about that long right up until the
Capitol Station attack."

"Jesus." Julian handed over the coffee. "What even happened there?"

"All I could tell you is I guess the Hunters wanted to prove that they're the
biggest fish in the pond."

"I heard rumors that human starships got involved in the fight." Julian said.

Kevin had to wonder if the man knew more than he was letting on and fishing
for information. Either way, he was in danger of straying into information
that at least one of Kevin's employers didn't think he needed to know.

He settled for a shrug and a lie of omission. "Well, we've _got_ those ships,
sure. Me, I'm a mushroom." Julian frowned at him, bewildered, so he
elaborated. "Kept in the dark and fed on shit."

Julian chuckled, and cleared off a barstool for him. "Wish I had more to tell
you." he said. "The last I saw of Kirk, he said he was gonna load Vedreg into
a pod and we should get ready to eject as well. I think he's probably alive -
I hope he is - but where and what he's doing…"

They drank their coffees.

"So, hey!" Julian perked up, changing the subject. "You're doing well for
yourself. Nice car, nice suit, you can afford to drop some groceries on a
stranger…"

"I work for the Byron Group nowadays." Kevin told him, deciding not to mention
his other employers. "Biggest name in space, though Hephaestus might disagree.
They've got the Allied shipbuilding contracts after all."

"What's your guys' game? How are you profiting off space?"

"Mr. Byron's big plan is pharmaceuticals and organic materials from other
deathworlds." Kevin told him. "It's a smart idea, too. Antibiotic resistance
has really turned into a big health scare these last couple of years. The
Corti want to sell us their disinfectant fields and frontline treatments, but
Byron reckons we should be looking for human solutions to the problem."

"If it works though…" Julian suggested.

"Sure. Still, he's right. We don't wanna become another client species of the
Dominion, do we?"

"I guess not."

"That was the other half of the reason I came down here." Kevin confessed. "We
need people who know how to survive out there, and from what I hear of you,
surviving is kinda your thing."

"What, as like an office job?" Julian asked. He gestured to the paperwork
."_Really_ not my thing."

"Far from it. Mister Byron told me he wants you on the crew for Byron Group
Exploration Vessel eleven. A ship."

"Number eleven?"

"Well… it's the twelfth ship the Group's built really, but one of them was a
special case. We're learning as we go, and the more people we can get on board
with real experience the better-"

He stopped at a harsh metallic squeal from the screen door and a knock.
Frowning, Julian stood up and opened it.

There was a blonde woman standing on the step with her arms folded and a
_severely_ pissed-off expression. She looked to be about the same age as
Julian, and about the same height too. And, frankly, in similarly excellent
physical condition.

Julian took a surprised step back. "Allison?"

"Phone not switched on, Etsicitty?"

"Uh…" Julian plunged into a pocket and tapped at his phone. Judging from the
way its screen remained stubbornly black, it had a flat battery. "But… it's
Tuesday, isn't it? Your plane wasn't supposed to land until tomor-"

"Wednesday. It's Wednesday, Julian. Today is Wednesday. I landed in
Minneapolis five hours ago."

"…Uhm… Fuck."

Allison Buehler just nodded. "Uh-huh. Who's this?"

"Uh… this is, um, this is Kevin. K-kevin Jenkins."

"Oh. Kirk's big disappointment." Allison thrust her carry-on bag into Julian's
arms and stepped into the house properly. "What happened to your nose?"

Kevin tried to ignore the _'big disappointment'_ jab, stinging though it was.
"Look, if you two need some privacy…"

"If Julian screwed up _that_ big, something important must have happened."
Allison shook her head. Behind her, Julian relaxed a bit. "Do you have
something to do with it? Is this _your_ paperwork?"

"Not mine, and I'm gonna give you some room anyway. 'Scuse me."

He navigated past her, gave Julian a sympathetic raise of the eyebrows that
said _'good luck'_, and discreetly fled to the safety of the car.

He checked his nose and decided that he couldn't blame people for commenting.
Xiu Chang had done a masterful job of breaking it.

He grabbed his phone.

_"Mister Moses Byron's office, Rachael speaking!"_

"Hey Rachael, it's Kevin."

_"Ah, yes Mister Jenkins. Putting you through now."_

"Thanks Rachael."

There was a burst of gentle hold music and then-

_"Kevin! How was Vancouver?"_

"Xiu Chang broke my nose."

_"…That's not encouraging, Kevin."_

"My own dumbass fault. She's got it in her head that she's home and that's
where she's staying, and I pushed a bit too hard." Kevin shrugged, even though
Byron couldn't see him. "But we'll see. I've tracked down Etsicitty and
Buehler and I think we might have a hook there."

_"Whaddya mean a 'hook'?"_ Byron demanded.

Grinning to himself, Kevin explained his idea.

**_Allison Buehler_**

Once the screen door had howled shut behind Jenkins, Allison granted herself
the luxury of a deep breath.

At first, she'd been irritated to discover an absence of Julian at the
airport. This had swiftly grown into frustration and three or four outright
angry messages left after the tone.

In hindsight, she must have looked like a goddess of rage when she was renting
the car, and she'd spent the first two of the three hours she'd been driving
from Minneapolis outright furious.

Then she had cooled down a bit, mostly from simple tiredness, and the rest
from reasoning that it was unlike Julian to screw up so completely, which
meant something serious had happened.

The last fifty minutes had been spent worrying that he was alright.

While it was a relief to find him present, upright and profusely apologetic,
_'alright'_ would have been a stretch. She'd never seen him so distressed, nor
so dishevelled. He'd plainly neglected to sleep or eat properly, his hair was
unwashed and his chin was rough with short hairs.

One of the reasons she found Julian so sexy was that _usually_, he projected
an air of never being out of his depth. _Usually_, the only thing that could
disrupt his composure was Allison herself.

There was a heady feeling of power involved in being able to fluster a man
like that: Finding him so badly unsettled when she hadn't been around to cause
it was so alarming that she completely gave up on being angry at him.

"God, Al, I'm so sorry I don't know how the fuck that happ-"

She silenced him with a sweet, short kiss. "Hey. It's okay. What **_is_** all
this, anyway?"

Julian cleared his throat and scratched at his eyebrow. "Um… Legal letters."

Allison picked one up and read it. Its content was so arcane and vague as to
induce an immediate headache, but the words _'inheritance',_ _'property'_ and
_'dispute'_ stood out.

"Oh. Oh no. They're disputing your grampa's will?"

"Everyone is." Julian nodded miserably, sliding up onto one of the bar stools
and running his fingers through his hair.

"Why?"

"Oh boy…" He cast helplessly around at all the paperwork and heaved a huge
breath out. "Where do I start? Okay, so… So it turns out Grampa never really
got along with the tribal elders at Red Lake."

"Why? 'Cause he was Navajo?"

"I don't think that's it, no. Might be. I dunno, I never met them." Julian
shrugged. "So that's problem one. Problem two is there's a question mark over
where, exactly, the reservation's boundaries even _are_, and whether this
patch falls inside or outside them."

"Why does that matter?"

"Because Grampa filed his will with the Federal Government as if this was
reservation land, but if it's not then it's not clear if the will's even
valid. So, the State's got involved there, _and_ the feds, and… oh yeah, let's
not forget my mom."

"What about her?"

"Well, okay, say the will's not valid but the house **is** on Reservation
land. In that case, the property is divided equally among all Grampa's
descendents. That'd be me, but also Mom and my half-sisters. And they're all
over in the Netherlands."

Allison leaned against the fridge. "Wait, what?"

"Don't even start, it's all to do with the Dawes Act and fractionation and…"
Julian trailed off, scowled and gave up. "Look, I've not even read half of it
yet. I think the AIM's probably involved too… plus of course there's Grampa's
criminal record."

"Criminal-? Oh. Right. Draft-dodging."

Julian nodded. He studied a letter then set it neatly on top of one of the
piles. "Claims, and counter-claims, and challenges and all of this shit's been
bubbling away for three years." he said. "Nobody's been arguing my side. It's
a mess, and I don't know how to even _begin_ navigating it."

"Almost sounds like it's not worth it." Allison commented. Julian straightened
and looked at her, questioningly. "I mean… we're going into space again,
aren't we? I know this place means a lot to you, but if you're not here to
look after it…"

Julian gave a long, thoughtful breath out through his nose and scratched at
his stubble. "What are we fighting for?" he asked. "I mean, if we're gonna
head back out there… why? What are we trying to do?"

"Get the hell away from Earth. You know that." Allison insisted.

"Yeah, I know. You feel valuable out there. I do too, I want to achieve
something with my life too. And I couldn't just sit idle, not when I know
what's out there."

"But…?" Allison prompted.

"But… I mean, come on Al, you've got to have _something_ you care about on
Earth or you wouldn't care about trying to protect it."

Allison folded her arms at her waist. "Do I?"

"Yeah. You do." Julian stood up and rubbed her shoulders. "You're not doing it
for the fame, are you?"

She made a scoffing noise. "What fame?"

"Exactly." Julian agreed. "But what do we mean by _'achieving something'_ if
it doesn't have to do with… with Earth? Or at least with some of the people
living on it?"

Feeling annoyed at herself for doing so even as she did it, Allison curled
into herself a little more and looked away from him. "Sure. Whatever. Maybe I
do have… something. Does that change anything? Sometimes you have to let go,
Julian."

He frowned. "You okay?"

"Just… Yeah." she sighed, looked him in the eye and _almost_ lied to him.
"Yeah, I'm fine. And you're right, I guess. I just…" she gestured to Mount
Paperwork. "For what fighting this is gonna cost you could just buy a new
place. I know it wouldn't be your grampa's, but… I mean, even if you spent all
that money fighting to keep this place you might not win."

"True." Julian conceded, reluctantly.

"And you said yourself, you want to go back into space."

"Also true."

"And if you do you won't be able to look after this place even if you hold
onto it…"

Julian put a palm to his forehead and rubbed it firmly down his face.
"Allison, for _fuck sake…"_

She paused and took a good look at him, then at all the accumulated keepsakes
and history around them. "…This place really means that much to you, huh?"

"Yeah. Yeah it does."

She chewed a lip thoughtfully, then found some resolve and nodded. "Okay."

Julian's head bobbed uncertainly. "…Okay?"

"If it means that much to you, fight it. I've got your back, I promise."

Julian sagged, relieved, then smiled a grateful nod before kissing her. "Thank
you."

She nodded, and managed a tight smile. "Maybe we should see what that Jenkins
guy wants."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**

**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Lewis_**

"Now THAT…" Kirk declared. "Looks impressive."

Lewis patted its chassis happily. "That it does! Too bad it doesn't work."

"…Congratulations?"

"Yeah, now I understand some of that footage you managed to get from Capitol
Station." Lewis laughed. "How did you get that, anyway?"

"It was not difficult. Most of it was human propaganda footage, put out by
your own government. It is _meant_ to be seen."

Lewis considered the implications of that.

"No shit?"

"No shit indeed." Kirk agreed. "I managed to secure some of the station's
security footage through a contact, too."

"Must be a fucking talented contact."

"She is, yes… so what is this?"

Lewis considered it. "It _was_ meant to be power armor." he said.

"You don't say?" Kirk asked. It was hard to see what else a humanoid metallic
frame layered in armour plates and technology could be. "You mean it is _not_
a novelty pizza oven?"

Lewis grumbled something and pushed the suit over by its forehead. It shook
the deck as it crashed down, and Kirk took a dainty step back to keep his feet
out of the way of the components that skittered across the floor. "Probably
better at that than at being a working suit of armor, that's for damn sure."

"What were the problems?" Kirk asked, stooping to pick up the suit's helmet
and examine it.

"Problem one? Turns out the human body's fucking strong anyway."

"You don't say?" Kirk repeated, setting down the helmet again and folding his
arms. "Fancy that."

"Shut up. I mean that even nonhuman-tech actuators and stuff can't match us
for all three of precision, speed and power. It's… laggy. Problem two: power
storage and generation. Needs a lot of both. The more I put on, the bigger and
heavier the suit needed to be, which meant it needed _more_ of both. And so
on."

"Both of those sound like surmountable challenges, with time." Kirk opined.

"Yeah, but then we run into the problem of _mass_." Lewis gritted his teeth.
"See, what am I making here? If it's a suit of armor designed for a man to
wear then the man needs to be the one doing the actual moving around, right?
The suit can assist him all it likes, but if he starts to tip over and needs
to correct himself, then the difference between _his_ mass and the suit's…
Nobody's got that kind of core strength dude. Especially not with the latency
problem."

"And if the suit is in control, then the human operator is more like a pilot,
and could in theory be replaced outright." Kirk finished for him.

"You got it." Lewis nodded. "And it turns out that in order for the mass
problem to not be there, the human operator needs to go entirely. Which means
I'm making a humanoid drone. Which is… cool, but what happens if somebody
hacks the drone? Like those Hierarchy fucks? Hell, if I got it to work then
what happens if somebody hacks the _armor_?"

"Assuming you could harden it against being hacked…" Kirk mused. "Could the
latency problem be fixed?"

Lewis hissed through his teeth. "I… doubt it." he said finally. "'Cause
there's basically… like, option one: the suit responds to muscle movements.
You move your arm, it senses you moving your arm, it moves _its_ arm. Right?"

"I follow."

"Well, okay, watch this shit." Lewis took a step back and then swirled his
arms vigorously in front of his face. To Kirk's eyes, they were a blur. "Okay?
And that's fucking SLOW. I'm not all that fast, dude. Now let's say I want
this thing to be fast enough that even fuckin' Ip Man could do his shit while
wearing it?"

Kirk folded his legs up underneath him and sat down. This brought his eye
level down to the point where he was only slightly above Lewis. "Yes…?"

"Not. Fucking. Happening. No way, no how, nuh-uh nope. Not if the suit's
reacting to the movement after it's already begun. And that's the kind of
speed it _needs_ to move at, so… boom goes Option One. Option two: brain
scan."

"Brain scan."

"Yu-huh. Shove, like, an EEG or some alien spacemagic equivalent in there.
Well, what happens if there's nervejam and the dude gets a headache or worse?
What happens if he's knocked around a bit and gets kinda confused? What if
he's unconscious and his buddies need to move him? Shit, what happens if the
pads come un-stuck or the sensor becomes misaligned? And that's assuming we
can even isolate individual signals like that which… I mean, I don't think
anyone's _ever_ gonna know the human brain that well. Too many problems for my
money."

"And Option Three?"

"JARVIS."

"I beg your pardon?"

"That's how Tony Stark did it." Lewis said. "Loaded an AI into the suit that
figured out what he was _about_ to want to do. Problem there? Tony Stark is
_fiction_, man, and so are AIs like that. I may as well be talking about… uh,
about scribing a fucking rune on the damn thing and casting a Golem spell. You
may as well try and fly a spaceship by doing a tarot reading."

He snapped his fingers at a couple of servant drones, then waved a finger at
the failed power armor. "Recycle that."

"It would not really have been much use against the Hierarchy anyway." Kirk
told him, as the drones flitted in and began to remove doomed pieces of
prototype . "They are not a physical foe we can meet in battle."

"Gotta learn how to walk before you can run, my man. This was just me proving
to myself that I knew everything I needed to make complicated shit before I
moved on to the real projects."

"Your point is taken, but I _am_ from a species that is born knowing how to
gallop." Kirk pointed out. "What is your _'real project'_ going to be?"

"Dunno yet."

"…We have been here this long, and you have no idea?"

Lewis just made a semi-amused harrumph and threw himself into his thinking
chair. "You've put a… a fucking huge problem in front of me, Kirk." he said.
"And I can sit here and absorb, like, biology and physics and mechanical
engineering and quantum whateverthefuckery all day, but if it's all for the
sake of Earth, then I need to know what Earth _needs_."

"Like…" he spun the chair around and called up the Capitol Station footage.
"_Look_ at these motherfuckers! Where the fuck did _that_ come from? Human
special forces in space? Wearing a functioning armored EVA suit? And these
dudes look like your average roid-jockey's wet dream, so _some_ shit's been
going down on Earth, man, and I don't know the half of it. How am I supposed
to help my people if I don't even know what we're up to?"

Kirk's head bobbed slowly down and then up. "I had hoped to remain out of
contact a little while longer, until we were properly up and running." he
confessed. "But you make a compelling case and… we were buzzed last night."

"Buzzed? By what?"

"A scout ship. Long-range. Our sensors did not get a very clear look at it
before it warped out again, but they did narrow down the options, one of which
is _very_ worrying."

"Worrying how?"

Kirk shook his mane, which Lewis understood as being something akin to an
uncomfortable shrug. "One of the possibilities was a ship that I have placed
on our security watch-list." he explained. "It is called the _'Negotiable
Curiosity'_ and it was very deliberately named. Its owner has a reputation for
being able to dig up any mystery. He is… tenacious."

"Hierarchy?"

"_Everybeing_ is Hierarchy, if they have implants." Kirk pointed out. "But I
would be surprised if he was not out here on their orders, yes. Though, I
doubt if he knows of them."

"That settles it then." Lewis decided. "I'm phoning home."

Kirk made an amused sound through his nose. "I thought _I_ was the ET?"

"Neither of us are on Earth right now, bro."

"I shall turn off the outbound message locks on the FTL relay." Kirk levered
himself up onto his feet, they exchanged a fist-bump, and he left Lewis alone
with his thoughts, which were already whirling with the letters he was going
to need to write.

Lewis took a deep breath, and decided to do his yoga first. Always best to
approach these things with a clear head.

Hopefully he'd think of a better introduction than "_To whom it may concern…"_

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**

**Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Regaari_**

Xiu seemed… smaller than the last time Regaari had seen her.

When her family admitted Ayma, Regaari, Baseball, Warhorse and Stainless into
their house, it was a stark reminder that humans were _not_ all muscular,
lean, predatory warriors. The young male was large, yes, but there was a
_roundness_ to his largeness that suggested a source other than physical
conditioning and hard training. Her parents were lean, yes, but it was the
leanness of increasing age and fragility. Both looked grey and tired.

It took a little coaxing and calling for Xiu to finally emerge, but when she
did she picked her way downstairs as if walking to an execution rather than a
reunion.

It didn't help that Ayma said nothing and just stared at her. Nobody spoke, no
sounds were audible except the creak of the steps, the rustle of clothing and
a car accelerating down the road outside.

There were times when etiquette between Gaoian females became so tangled and
complicated that even male Gaoians, who were perhaps the best-placed beings in
the galaxy to have an insight into it, had trouble keeping up. A moment like
that happened now.

Ayma spoke first, and she used the tone of a mother about to give a scolding.
"Sister."

Xiu swallowed and glanced up the stairs, perhaps considering the option to
flee, but she looked back to Ayma and responded with an inflection that
implied… not defiance, but not submission either. A standing of her ground.
Her Gaori really had improved from when Regaari had first met her. "Mother."

The silence stretched until it was vibrating and Regaari was desperate to snap
at both of them when, at once, the two females ran out of resolve and collided
- gently in Xiu's case and unreservedly in Ayma's - in a solid hug that saw
both of them sink to their knees. Gaoian and Human body language rarely
aligned so perfectly.

Everyone looked away, giving them what privacy they could, and Warhorse had
the presence of mind and good manners to shut down the translator. That left
only Regaari able to understand what they were saying to each other, and he
made a point of not listening.

Eventually, Xiu exhumed her face from the fur of Ayma's shoulder and aimed a
weak smile his way. "It's good to see you again, Regaari." she managed.

Unable to quite summon any words, Regaari settled for ducking his head
vigorously. Xiu pulled back from Ayma, gave her a curious look, Ayma nodded,
and Xiu stood to give Regaari a huge but controlled hug. After a few tentative
seconds, he returned it.

She looked around. "Could we… have some privacy please?"

While Xiu's family promptly nodded and left the room, Warhorse and Baseball
were more reluctant. "This room's not been properly sanitized, miss…" Burgess
said.

"Please, guys." Regaari turned to them. "We won't take the excursion suits
off, and I trust Xiu to shout if we need help."

Both men turned to Stainless, who pursed his lips, thinking.

"We're not goin' further than the far side of that door." he declared,
pointing to it.

"Deal." Xiu agreed. "Thank you."

Xiu stood as they left the room, then sank down on the couch as if she was
suddenly exhausted.

As soon as the door clicked shut, Ayma laid into her.

"What were you _thinking?!_" she demanded.

"Me? What are _you_ thinking right now?" Fatigue gone, Xiu shot to her feet.
"I ran away to _protect_ you! To give you the chance to get on with your
lives! And _this_ is how you repay that? You come _here?!_ Don't you know that
every breath on this planet could _kill_ you?! Don't you **_care?"_**

"Sisters stick together, Shoo, you know that!" Ayma yipped.

"NO!" Xiu spun away, clawed at her hair and gathered her composure. In a much
quieter voice, she carried on. "Sisters _care_ for one another. Sisters
_protect_ one another, Ayma. And you're standing exactly where you shouldn't
be because you just don't seem to understand that I don't want you to get
hurt. Not- not for me. I'm not worth that."

"Triymin thought you were." Ayma pointed out.

"Triymin is _dead."_ Xiu stumbled over the word. "I'm not worth that. I'm
_not_."

"Well _we're_ **not** dead." Ayma pointed out. "And… I think you _are_ worth
coming here for."

"Why?" Xiu sat down again. "I'm nobody special, Ayma. I'm just… I'm just me. I
wanted to be an actress. Lots of girls want to be an actress. I did ballet, I
had a room full of… of _shit_ that I didn't need…" She spat the word in
English rather than Gaori. "I was _normal_. I can't handle being anything
else."

Regaari laid a paw on Ayma's shoulder. "Tell her."

"…We had a cub." Ayma said, getting his drift. "A female. We called her Shoo."

Xiu sighed and rubbed her face. "I… I'm delighted. Really I am." she said.
"But… Um, I know that you don't do family the same way that humans do. I know
that little…" She smiled "Little _Shoo_ will grow up in the commune, just like
you both did, and Myun and - How is Myun, anyway?"

"Wealthy and quite happy to be a human _fangirl_." Regaari said. "She and I
have a cub too. Or rather, she's expecting one."

Xiu sat back, stunned. "God. She's old enough to have a cub now… her first?"

"Indeed." Regaari duck-nodded.

"With you?"

Regaari duck-nodded again. "A male, probably, if the antenatal scans are
accurate."

Xiu's face moved in a complicated way as she tried to smile and frown at the
same time. "…I just don't understand you." She told them, quietly. "You have a
cub together, she's safe on Gao, and instead of being there for her you come
here to this - this **_death_**world? You should be with the people you care
about!"

"We _are_ with the people we care about!" Ayma keened, stepping forward and
delicately taking Xiu's hand between two of her paws. "Don't you see? It's not
about what you're _worth_, it's about…" she changed vocal gears, picking a
word in English. "_Family!"_

"My family are outside." Xiu said.

"Your _family_," Ayma corrected her "-are the people who care about you. And
as our species proves, that's not a matter of genetics. Here we are, Shoo:
Here's your family, right here in this room."

"And we know you care about us too." Regaari said. "You don't want us to be
hurt. But we don't want _you_ to be hurt either, and right now… it's obvious
that you are hurting."

Xiu blinked at them, then looked away, and down. She grimaced at herself and
snapped her head back to blink back tears.

"Shoo?"

_"O… WŎ wanquan mingbai Ie…"_

"Shoo?"

Xiu sat forward and let out a long breath. "I had… somebody came to see me, a
few days ago. He said things that made me so angry that I broke his nose."

Ayma and Regaari inclined their ears in mutual confusion, not sure where she
was going.

Xiu didn't seem to notice. "I know why I was so mad at him now. It's because
he was _right_. I'm not home, am I? This really isn't home any more. And I've
been hurting myself trying to pretend that it is."

"So… where is home? Gao?" Ayma asked.

Xiu shook her head. "No… No. I'm sorry Ayma. I'm so sorry for running away,
but it's not. It can't be, I won't endanger Gao like that, or any other world.
I won't endanger _you_ like that."

Ayma moved her head softly in agreement. "I know. That's why we came here. I
wanted to tell you that I forgive you for running. I… You were right."

Very gently, Xiu sat back, took a deep breath, and let her hands fall onto her
lap. "…Oh, I needed to hear that."

"So… where _is_ home?" Regaari asked her.

She looked at him, opened her mouth to say something, then plainly
reconsidered and lapsed into thoughtful silence, staring at some distant point
far away beyond the carpet. Regaari gave her a few seconds, and then verbally
prodded her. "Shoo?"

"…I'm not sure." Xiu said, shaking herself out of whatever trance she had been
in. "But… but I think I have a good idea where to start looking."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**  
**North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

After carefully filing the drift of legal correspondence in a heap on the
coffee table, the three of them had been able to fit around the kitchen island
on the bar stools. Julian sat at one end with Allison next to him, and Jenkins
and his sophisticated state-of-the-art phone complete with holographic
projector sat at the other.

"So… pretty much since Scotch Creek released the first wave of warp and
kinetic tech to the public, the second space race has been a whole _thing._"
Jenkins told them. "You've got Hephaestus LLC up on Ceres, Red Bull driving
their sales by sponsoring everything that flies higher than a football, BAE
and Lockheed-Martin vying for the military contracts, Virgin's space tourism
and starkisser flights… and Byron Group."

He swiped through a few items on the phone and then grinned as it delivered a
shimmering, transparent rendering of what was clearly a spaceship. "Most of
what the Group's up to is applying space tech to people's lives down here on
Earth. Forcefield solar power, stasis fridges, sanitation fields… holographic
phones and TVs…" he gestured to the phone with a smile and a shrug. "Doesn't
hurt that the Group makes the best warp engines and jump drives, too."

When Allison and Julian just waited patiently and listened, he cleared his
throat and forged ahead.

"What that buys is the cash for what Mister Byron calls _'moon laser
projects.'_ He's got big dreams: Human colonies, interstellar low-latency
communications, interplanetary trade by jump array instead of freighter… you
name it. Stuff that needs a big investment. Top of the list are colonization
and trade."

"So you need explorers and market surveyors." Allison observed.

"You got it. Folks who can find us worlds to live on, tell us what we're going
to have to do to live on them safely without killing all the locals. Folks who
can _talk_ with the locals and maybe find out what they've got that we want,
and what we can pay them. Hence, the Byron Group Exploration Vessels. This
here is EV-Ten, _'Creature of Habit.'_ The most recent one."

"Sleek." Julian commented. It really was. The ship was clearly nothing but
functional, but it was functional in the same way as a good knife - the sheer
unyielding utility of its form was beautiful in its own right.

"Moon laser shit again. Mister Byron reckons the human _'brand'_ is gonna be
about the aesthetics of function. Got to impress the customer, he says."
Jenkins' tone suggested that he had disagreements there. "Anyway… the thing
is, about half of the ships in the EV program never came back. We've _mostly_
figured out what got 'em, but if we can crew them with people who know what
it's like out there… Starwise people, you know? Like streetwise, but for-"

"We get it." Allison told him. Julian suppressed a smile. She was entertaining
when she got prickly.

"Right… Well. That'd be you guys. Xiu Chang too, if you can talk her into it."

"Can't you ask her yourself?" Allison asked.

Jenkins cleared his throat awkwardly. "She, uh… wasn't receptive to the idea."

Allison sat back. "Oh. My. God. _Xiu_ broke your nose!"

"…Yeah."

Julian and Allison frowned at one another.

"We like Xiu and we trust her opinion." Julian told him. "If she got pissed at
you, that's kind of a deal breaker."

"That's a pity, because the Byron Group's prepared to take on your legal
SNAFU, win it, and install a caretaker to keep this place in working order
while you're gone."

Allison stood up. "And now I see _why_ she broke your nose!" she snapped, and
span away.

Julian just folded his arms and glared. "You'd hold that over us?"

Jenkins raised both hands. "No! No! Nothing like holding it over you! I didn't
come here to threaten. I'm just sayin'…. you've got what we need, and we're
willing to pay for it."

Allison turned and frowned at him, and Jenkins lowered his hands. "The offer's
honest. I promise." He said.

Allison looked to Julian.

Julian briefly considered tossing Jenkins out on his ear… but the offer of
legal assistance was far too good to waste, and there _was_ still the
unresolved question of how, exactly, they were planning to get into space and
with whom…

"Give us a day or two to think about it." he suggested.

"Sure. Here." Jenkins pulled a business card from his inside jacket pocket.
"Take your time."

He laid it on the table and stood. "Hey… look, whatever you decide, good
luck."

Julian stood, shook his hand, and escorted him to the door.

Once the screen door had finished wailing itself closed, he took a moment to
take stock of his situation.

"I say go for it." he told Allison, turning to face her.

"Xiu broke his nose." she repeated.

"He's just one guy. There've gotta be others working for Byron." Julian
shrugged. "And… I mean, Xiu's great but she'd be the first to say her head's
not completely in the right place sometimes."

"Julian!"

"Remember that time she turned down Lewis by saying she wasn't looking to
_'mate'_ with anyone?"

Allison blinked. "She… Uh… Okay. Point."

"Look why don't you call her?" Julian suggested. "My phone still needs to
charge and I think she'd like to hear from you anyway."

Allison nodded. If there was a touch of nervousness in the way she did so,
Julian decided not to comment. He wasn't quite sure where Allison and Xiu
stood with one another - they hadn't really had a lot of time to discuss
things since their night of… well, since he'd been their waiter. Their
shirtless, eye-candy, objectified waiter…

He sat on a bar stool again, and tried to turn his thoughts to housework
instead.

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**  
**Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Regaari_**

Regaari had ridden in plenty of motorcades before, during his time attached to
Mother-Supreme Giymuy. He wasn't quite sure about riding sideways in a
"limousine" \- something that Warhorse and Baseball had quietly waxed
enthusiastic about for some reason - but he had to admit that it was nice to
be sitting _opposite_ the protectors, rather than crammed in between the door
and their muscles.

This particular motorcade didn't have far to go, as apparently the distance
between the Chang family's house in Strathcona and Vancouver City Hall was not
great, but it looked set to be a tense, quiet and despondent journey. Mother
Ayma wasn't happy. Not happy at all. Seething, in fact, to the point that her
claws were wearing small frayed gouges in the upholstery.

Regaari and Warhorse had figured out a gesture between them which was to mean
"please turn the translator off and give us some privacy." He used it now, and
Warhorse promptly nodded and obeyed. The audioscape of the limo changed ever-
so-subtly as the targeted white noise that the device used to cancel and
overlay speech from each listener's perspective shut down.

Regaari steeled himself, and spoke to Ayma.

"You're troubled." he said.

"My Sister is plainly miserable, Regaari." Ayma said, so fast that it was
almost a snap at him.

Regaari made a little growling noise that denoted understanding and/or
agreement. "You're right, that was inane of me. What I'm wondering is what
else is going on in your head besides concern for Shoo."

"What else _should_ be?" Ayma retorted.

Regaari tucked his right leg up under himself so as to turn slightly in the
seat and face her. "What about all of your other Sisters?" he asked.

Ayma hung her head and flicked an ear, irritated. "Must you use your analyst's
brain on me?" she asked.

"I can no sooner stop being a Whitecrest than you can stop being a Mother."
Regaari replied, evenly. "I know my reasons for coming here. To forge
strategic ties, to advance the interests of my Clan and by extension all
Gaoians. It's my good fortune that I can achieve those things by helping my
good friend and… I admit, indulging my curiosity about Earth into the bargain.
But I do have to wonder what your reasons were for coming here. You're the one
who suggested it after all. Not to be crass, but what did you hope to
achieve?"

Ayma looked out of the window for a moment before replying. "Maybe I'm just a
mother looking out for a wounded cub." she mused. "Is that… shallow?"

"No, not at all." Regaari told her. "You wouldn't be Ayma if you didn't care.
But Shoo's not a cub: She was an adult before we ever met her, and as I recall
she saved both our lives. She's spent more years surviving on her own than she
spent with us, and she has become good at it."

Ayma ducked her head. "She did, didn't she? She no longer has that childish
turn of phrase."

"Did your cub grow up, Mother Ayma?"

Ayma chittered. "She did!" she agreed. "She truly did. And… It pains me to let
my cubs go, but I'm glad. I think she'll be okay."

"I think so too."

Ayma relaxed, and turned her attention out the window again, watching the
crowd of people holding signs welcoming them to Earth. "Yes. She will."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV** **North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Allison Buehler_**

It was funny how _heavy_ a phone could be. Most of the time it was an
unconsidered thing, just a part of life on Earth that would sit in Allison's
handbag or pocket - and thank _God_ fashion had finally got its head around
the idea that women wanted pockets that were more than decorative - to be
ignored it until needed, at which point it would be fished out, used and
returned, unheeded.

It was like an extension of her own body in that regard. And just like an arm
or leg, the weight of it only ever became apparent when it had become numb.
Or, in this case, when she was staring at the phone working up the courage to
hit "call".

There was, as far as she could tell, no good reason for this. Xiu was a
friend, good fun. She and Allison had hit it off pretty much the second she
came aboard, and that bit of fun with Julian serving drinks while they watched
_Mulan_…

Well, that had all been good fun. _Very_ good fun. Exciting, even.

And… that was the problem. It had been _exciting:_ not just the thrill of
pushing the limits in her relationship with Julian, but… well. They could have
pushed the boat out in private, but they'd chosen to invite Xiu in. _Allison_
had chosen to invite Xiu in. Into something she wouldn't normally have shared
with anybody, into her sex life and into her relationship with her boyfriend.

And she had thoroughly enjoyed it. She'd enjoyed watching Xiu sneak glances at
Julian, and not in a smug _'yeah, bitch, look what I got'_ sense, but in…

It rang.

She stared at Xiu's name and the video call request in dumb surprise for three
rings before her thumb swiped at the green call-accept icon automatically and
her voice went into autopilot.

"Hey babe!"

Xiu waved at her from the other end. She looked… peaceful. Happy, even. It was
a nice change. "Hey!"

"You're looking good! Home agreeing with you, huh?"

"Well, uh…" Xiu turned the phone around and gave her a good look at a room
completely empty of furniture or decoration. "That's complicated."

"…Wow. they threw all your stuff out?" Allison asked, scandalized.

"Oh! No, I did." Xiu turned the phone back around again.

_"You_ did?"

"Yeah!"

"…Why?"

Xiu shrugged, as if it was no great thing. "It… just didn't feel like my stuff
any more." she explained.

"None of it?"

"Just some clothes." Xiu looked around the empty space she'd made for herself.
"Is that strange?"

"Maybe?" Allison asked. "I mean, you were _huge_ on getting home, and the
first thing you do is throw out all your stuff?"

Xiu made an awkward noise and tidied up an errant wisp of hair. "I just… it
feels more like my place now that it's a blank canvas." she said. "Have you
been following the news?"

"Nuh. Why, did something happen?"

"Wow, okay… uh… Ayma and Regaari."

Allison frowned. "They're on the news?"

"They, uh… they came here." Xiu said it with forced lightness.

"…As in…" Allison took a heartbeat to get her head around what she'd just been
told. "They visited you? Here on _Earth?_"

"Right here in my parents' front room. Yeah." Xiu had a nervous laugh in her
voice at that. The camera jolted as she shrugged. "And, uh, apparently they're
going to go visit some US national park and then fly over to England and the
King's going to give Regaari a medal."

"A medal? What for?"

"For… um… so there was this other thing in the news that we missed. Apparently
the Hunters hit this big space station that's meant to be, like, the biggest
and most important in the Dominion."

"Why am I only hearing about this now?" Allison sat forward.

"Because we were in hospital I guess. And, um, I was too busy trying to…" Xiu
gestured to the room around her. "You know, trying to settle in up here and
get back in shape that I guess I just forgot to check up on the last, uh, ten
years of world history. There's… a lot of it."

"Wow, yeah. You missed the best part of a decade, didn't ya? When you think
about how much happened in, like, the sixties or the forties or whatever…"
Allison agreed.

"You missed five years too." Xiu pointed out. "Did you know there's a _city_
in the asteroid belt now? And another one on the planet Cimbrean?"

"I knew there were small colonies…" Allison said. "Cities?"

"Yeah… It's… kinda scary. When I left… I mean, aliens were just a silly story
when I left and all of this would have been on TV."

"And now you're fluent in an alien language and could probably get a _job_ in
one of those cities." Allison said. "Wow. Mindfuck."

"Yeah… Anyway, uh… Regaari was on that station. With Mother Giymuy. She…
didn't make it."

"Oh, baby, I'm sorry…" Allison moved the phone closer to her face, as if a
little more digital proximity might make all the difference in comfort.

Xiu smiled for her. "It's… it's okay. She was very old even when I first met
her, and Regaari told me the Hunters didn't get her. I'll miss her, but…"

Allison just nodded, and they had a moment of mutual silence before Xiu perked
up again. "Oh! Okay, you know those soldiers who pulled us off the lifeboat?"

"Yeah?"

"Well, they went to that station to save people! Sergeant Ares, the one who
treated me, he's friends with Regaari! Apparently they fought together in that
battle. _My_ Regaari!"

"Wow. Small galaxy."

"More like a really small group of guys in that job." Xiu suggested. "Anyway,
apparently the British want to give Regaari a medal."

"And Ayma?"

Xiu laughed. "I don't know if she wanted to scold me or check if I was okay.
Both I guess? But it's…"

Allison let her think, and after a thoughtful scratch at her eyebrow, Xiu
turned back to the camera. "I guess I owe you an apology." she said.

"What for?"

"For being so…" Xiu hunted for the right word "So _down_ these last couple of
weeks. It's just… _weird_, being back here."

Allison scooted back on the bed and folded her legs. "Not like you imagined?"

Xiu shook her head. "No. Mom's trying to act like nothing really happened,
like she's not _sixty_ now. Wei doesn't know how to talk with me and I don't
know how to talk with him and Papa's… he's kind of… sad all the time. Like,
I'll catch him looking at me and then he'll look away and I think I can see
tears."

Allison chose her words carefully. "D'you think that's likely to get better?"
she asked.

Xiu made a coarse noise in her throat and snarled something in Gaori. It was a
good language for snarling in, like an angrier version of Mandarin as spoken
by a mouthful of sharp teeth.

"Say again?" Allison asked her.

"I said… well. I said no. No I don't. You want to hear the kind of work offers
I've been getting?"

"Do tell?"

Xiu shook her head, smiling grimly. "Five publishers who want to ghost-write
my story, some **_asshole_** from the Byron Group, and an actual _porn_
studio!"

Allison's mouth opened in outrage. "You're shitting me."

"Nuh. I think that guy was just trying his luck, though. Like, he didn't
expect me to say yes, but if by some miracle I did…"

"Did you break the porn guy's nose too?"

Xiu went red. "How did-?"

"That Byron Group asshole showed up down here too."

"I should have known he would…" Xiu kneaded her forehead. "D'you tell him to
go away?"

"Can't. He literally made Julian an offer that he can't refuse… or if he does
refuse, he's crazy."

"That good?"

"There's this whole legal… _thing_ with Julian's grampa's place. He could lose
the house if it goes against him, and this place is real important to him."

Xiu sighed. "So if you sign a deal with them, Byron Group sorts it all out?"
she asked. "That kind of manipulation is why I hit that guy."

"Manipulation it might be." Allison agreed. "But it sounded like everyone's
gonna get what they want."

"Do I get to hit him again?"

Allison covered her mouth to stifle a giggle. Xiu was teasing, she knew: a
sure sign that for all the ups and downs of discussing the things she'd
learned, she was in a good mood. "Okay, so what was it lifted your spirits?"
she asked.

"Just… I guess I cleared my head out. Figured out what's really _mine_ in
there. Like my room."

"I hope there's more in there than you left in your room!"

Xiu made a silent laugh through her nose. "There is." she promised. "Look, can
I come down there? Right now? I've… things are clear right now, and I want to
act while they still are. Is that okay?"

"You know you can!" Allison told her.

"You don't mind? I mean, just you and Julian in a little place in the woods…
it sounds romantic."

"Hey." Allison sat forward. "There's no way you'd make it less romantic, I
promise." she winked. "It'll be… intimate."

Xiu laughed, going slightly red across her nose and cheeks. Her fingertip ran
absent-mindedly through the hair at her temple. "Well, when you put it like
that…"

"Mm-hmm, just you, me, a gorgeous guy… and, oh my God, he has the _hugest_ TV
and there's nobody around for _miles_, so we could crank the volume right up."

Xiu giggled. "Mm. I do like to get loud…" she mused. Her phone jolted as she
stood up. "I'd better book a flight and… well, let my parents know where I'm
going." she said. "Uh… See you soon?"

Allison nodded, clearing her throat to try and cure a sudden and unaccountable
case of dry mouth. "…Sure." she agreed. "You, uh, send us the… details. You
know."

"Will do. Sure. Um… 'bye for now."

Allison waved to the screen: Xiu smiled and ended the call. The instant the
phone went dark, Allison tossed it lightly aside onto the blankets then let
out a long and shaky breath. "Okay…"

She let herself fall backwards and put her hands over her eyes, thinking.
"Wow."

Julian called from the kitchen. "You okay?"

Allison peeled her hands apart and directed an embarrassed grimace at the
ceiling. "Yeah! Yeah. She's, uh… She's coming down here!"

"So soon?"

"Yeah."

"Hey, if you wanna shower, the hot water should be full." Julian suggested,
appearing in the doorway. "Help work that stressful day off?"

A hot shower sounded like simultaneously the best idea and the worst idea
right now, but a lot more of the former. Allison kicked her legs out and
sprang up off the bed. "You make a compelling argument." she smiled, and
kissed him on the cheek. "Just through here?"

"Yup."

Allison slid past him, grabbed her flight bag from where Julian had left it on
the couch. "What are you gonna do?" she asked.

He just waved a hand helplessly at all the legal paperwork.

Allison sighed. "…Right. You, uh… have fun, I guess."

The shower turned out to be _amazing_. She found a setting that felt almost
like she was getting a massage from a wire brush and worked all the tension
and travel grime out of her scalp and her shoulders, leaned forward and let
decadently hot water steam and cascade down her back and legs. A different
setting swirled and pulsed pleasantly across her chest and tummy, and the
final setting just _soaked_, allowing her to employ an exfoliating scrub and
get herself feeling properly clean for the first time since they'd been landed
on the planet Aru.

Aru…

She killed the shower and gave herself the bare minimum of a drying-off,
squeezing the excess water out of her hair and swiping it from her arms and
legs with her hands. She combed her hair back, grabbed a pair of clean black
panties from her luggage and wriggled into them.

Draping a hand towel around her shoulders completed the image. She studied
herself in the mirror. Blonde hair slicked back and gone dark from the
wetness, long limbs beaded with droplets, a lingering wet sheen on an abdomen
that had only _slightly_ suffered from not being able to do her usual regimen
of crunches, and _just_ enough breast visible behind the towel.

Perfect.

She unlocked the door. "Hey, Etsicitty?" she asked, stepping out into the
living room.

He looked up. "Yea-? …_Woah._"

There was nothing like making him speechless, and she deployed her best dark
smile. "Come here."

He was up and sliding an arm around her waist in a second. "Yes ma'am!"

"Oh yeah." she laughed and congratulated herself as she felt him kiss and
nibble the side of her neck and gently push her back towards the bedroom.
"Good boy."

**Date Point 10y4m6d AV**  
**Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Earth**

**_Mother Ayma_**

"According to your Internet, there are many females interested in you…"

Baseball perked up and rolled across a bed to take a closer look at Ayma's
screen. It creaked, alarmingly. "No shit?"

"Oh yes. There is a poll. _'Left Beef versus Right Beef, who's sexier?"_

She wasn't quite sure if the nicknames were intended to be insulting, but they
seemed to please Baseball. "Fuckin' beef? Awesome."

"I would have found that insulting myself,"

"Are you kidding?" he turned towards the bathroom door and raised his voice.
"Yo, Horse!"

A muffled _"Yuh?"_ drifted through the door.

"You know what they're calling us on the Internet?"

_"What?"_

"They're calling us _'Left Beef'_ and _'Right Beef'_!"

Adam could be heard laughing beyond the door. "_Which is which?_" He called.

"You're Left Beef."

"I don't think I understand the joke." Ayma confessed. The Internet was a
source of near limitless fascination and impenetrable in-jokes. The gist was
that her Protectors had acquired almost as much celebrity - if not more - than
Regaari and herself, with the commentary ranging from the objectifying and
overtly sexual, to the dismissive, the political and the surprisingly well-
informed.

"It's like… Y'know what, never mind. You gonna vote?"

"On a poll as to which of two _humans_ I find more attractive?" Ayma queried.
"I don't find either of you attractive!"

"Aww, c'mon." Base smiled. Ayma bobbled her head in resignation, and touched
her claw to "Right Beef."

"You remind me a little of one of my mates." she explained, while Base quietly
pantomimed victory with a pump of his fist.

"I do?"

"Oh yes. He-"

They were interrupted by the bathroom door opening and a thoroughly bedraggled
and uncomfortable-looking Regaari shuffled out, dripping wet and wrapped head
to foot in towels and a bathrobe. Warhorse was slightly behind him wearing
only a pair of shorts and looking rather more comfortable, though that was
hardly strange. Moisture and humans seemed to go together well.

"Oh dear. Our turn?" Ayma asked.

Regaari made a show of seating himself in as dignified a posture as he could
in front of the large mirror that dominated the main room. To Ayma's eyes, he
was still as sleek and handsome as ever, and in any other setting she might
have been able to appreciate his slender strength and some fond memories of
the time spent siring their cub together.

Next to any human, however, any Gaoian was skinny. Next to _Warhorse_, Regaari
looked positively pathetic.

"Your turn," he confirmed, fighting to maintain some semblance of gravitas
when he looked half-drowned and was shivering uncontrollably.

"Yeah, uh… Dude. Don't use Formulation Three." Warhorse cautioned, referring
to one of the hypoallergenic shampoos they'd been able to acquire for the
mission. The Gaoians were going to need a thorough decontamination at the end
of every day, and finding products that were safe for nonhuman skin but still
tough on Terran pathogens and allergens had been… challenging.

Base's brow creased interrogatively. "Okay, but why not?"

"Turns out it contains civet musk oil."

"That's bad?"

"Don't. Ask."

"Though, um, any clan which imported that… substance would surely become very
wealthy and powerful." Regaari fidgeted in his seat.

"Ah. you mean that… _interesting_ scent isn't you?" Ayma asked, flicking an
amused ear. The vapor that had spilled out of the bathroom alongside Regaari
and his human friend had a potent aphrodisiac component. "I shall have to
alert Yulna to the danger of males trying to import this substance…"

Regaari's ears wilted and he fidgeted uncomfortably in his seat.

Ayma decided it would be cruel to tease him further. "Very well. Shall we go
decontaminate, Baseball? Hopefully any lingering… _awkwardness_ will have
dissipated by the time we are done."

Base chuckled. "Sure."

Ayma couldn't hold back a deep wave of trepidation when they entered the
bathing suite. "Does it _truly_ have to be a wet bath?" she asked.

"Truly does, unless you wanna wind up breathing in all the deathworld stuff in
your fur. And, uh, you're gonna need to seal those robes in this here bag."
Base offered it. When Ayma duck-nodded and began to remove the garment, he
turned around sharply.

"…What are you doing?" She asked.

"Just, uh…"

"Oh, don't be ridiculous." Ayma directed an exasperated glance at the ceiling.
"You and I are of different species, and mine doesn't subscribe to human body-
squeamishness in any case."

"You've got those robes, an' overalls an' stuff…" Base pointed out, still not
turning around. Ayma stuffed her dirty clothing into the bag and sealed it as
the instructions dictated.

"And you have those _'ranger shorts'_ which don't seem consistent with any
other human notion of modesty I have encountered." Ayma retorted. "Besides,
how am I expected to carry my communicator and wallet in my fur?" She turned
on her best _Mother_ voice. "Now will you _please_ recover your senses and
help me decontaminate?"

The Mother voice worked. He cleared his throat and turned around, gave her a
curious look, and then shrugged. "You're right. You look more like a… a dog or
a cat or something," he agreed.

"I know what you're saying, but please don't compare us to non-sapient
animals, Baseball." she requested. "It's not… dignified."

"Right. Sorry." He turned and grabbed some bottles. "So, this here's the
shampoos… Number three is out, so that leaves… these."

Ayma's nose twitched. "That's… quite a potent scent. Why are they so
perfumed?"

"Humans like our soap to smell good I guess." Baseball, a man who smelled
almost exclusively of clean sweat and testosterone, shrugged. "And these are
prescription soaps for people with, like, delicate skin conditions and stuff,
but they're supposed to still smell nice."

"They're overpowering! Do your noses even work properly?"

Base scoffed. "Dude. Speciesist. Now come on, which smells nicest?"

"That one is… heady. What is it?"

"Uh… Coconut butter."

Ayma ducked her head in a _'let's get this over with'_ way and Baseball
started the shower, which coughed and spurted before settling into a steady
stream. He ran his hand under it once or twice, gauging the temperature, then
invited Ayma to do the same.

"That's… just right." she declared, took a deep breath and stepped under it.

Gaoians had an uneasy relationship with water. Males from working clanless
castes and the more notable labor clans like Stoneback tended to clip their
fur right back to the undercoat so as to soak it and work long hours, cooled
by evaporating water.

Females, however, were not usually workers, and the only time Ayma had
previously managed to be truly drenched had been when she had fallen into a
fountain in the Commune as a young female just out of cubhood. Water had gone
up her nose and she had felt miserable for _hours_ as she slowly dried.

This was… better, at least. The water was nice and warm, but it still made her
fur heavy and plastered it down, leaving her - she knew - looking small and
skinny and helpless. Still, when Baseball played the showerhead over her scalp
and water flooded her ears, it was all she could do not to claw at him and
escape.

She settled instead for shaking her head violently to dislodge it, and
Baseball made an "Uagh!" noise as second-hand water splattered his face.

"Right, because _you_ have grounds to complain." Ayma growled. She was already
shivering, despite the water's warmth.

"You're the one who wanted to come to this planet." Baseball reminded her.
"Ain't my fault that means a thorough shampoo once a day. Here." He handed her
the showerhead. "I got all the stuff you can't reach. You're on your own for
the front and the awkward bits."

Ayma accepted it and dutifully set about making sure every inch of her was
properly soaked. Baseball, for his part, squirted a large (and cold) dollop of
soap onto her upper back and started to massage it in with equal parts
strength and delicacy.

"So who was this mate I remind you of?" he asked.

"I-? Oh. Daar, the sire of my third cub. Daar of Stoneback."

"Big guy?"

"The biggest. Daar is the Stoneback clan's great success story." Telling the
story was a welcome distraction. "The end product of their whole genetic
program. He's almost as strong as a human, in some ways."

"Right. Y'all aren't that far behind us really."

"Far enough behind that if you were to punch me, I would have better chances
of surviving a pulse pistol."

"Yeah, but part of that's… like, we're _made_ to punch. Gaoians aren't. Bet
you if you could use that long dorsal muscle for punching you'd hit about as
hard as we do."

"I have my doubts." Ayma shook her head again. Baseball raised a hand to ward
off flying droplets. "…I'm sorry. It's very hard not to do that."

"You okay?" Baseball asked.

"I itch all over. Wet fur… what is the term? _Sucks."_

"Beats acute respiratory distress." He reminded her. "Here's the shampoo."

Ayma accepted it and set about massaging it right into every hair follicle she
had. "He's a bit of a freak, really." she conceded. "But that's what his clan
have been trying to breed for thousands of years: a freak."

"I'm guessing they're breeding from him, too."

"With females who'll accept the proposition, yes. As I did. Apparently I'm
quite the catch,"

"Why's that?" Base asked. He started rinsing out the soap again.

"My own genetic legacy includes Clans Highmountain and Goldpaw." Ayma
revealed.

"That's good?"

"They specialize in science and philosophy and in commerce and trade
respectively. Thinkers and merchants. A good legacy, and one I'm proud to be
part of."

Base's hands paused. "See, that'd bother me." He said. "Being just… being
valued only for my genes."

Ayma turned her head and gave him as best a sidelong glance as she could.
"Why?"

"Hey, someday, kids'd be nice." Base said. "But I wanna make a difference
myself, not just be the daddy of the person who made a difference."

Ayma turned away again. "Do you know how old I am?" she asked.

"No."

"I will be fifty-four soon. That's in Gaoian years. In humans years, I'm…" she
raised her head slightly to perform some mental calculations. "…About forty-
five."

"Wow. I thought you were younger."

Ayma duck-nodded again. "We don't decline slowly like you do. We stay in our
prime for most of our lives, but our geriatric decline is abrupt. The very
oldest Gaoian I ever heard of was Father Fyu, who lived to be more than a
hundred of our years old. The oldest I ever knew personally was Mother-Supreme
Giymuy, who was ninety-two when she died. Most Gaoians… eighty of our years."

"That's not so bad." Base said.

"Except that there are twelve of our years to every ten of yours." Ayma said.
"Most humans can expect to live a fifth as long again as I will, and… bear in
mind, that life expectancy is the product of all our advances in medical
science. And I mean no offense, Baseball, but _our_ medicine is a very long
way in advance of humanity's."

"Oh." Baseball didn't apparently know what to say beyond that, and so settled
for gently plucking the shampoo bottle out of her paw and starting the second
lather.

"We… are not a long-lived species." Ayma summarized. "Not by your standards,
and _especially_ not when compared to Corti or Guvnuragnaguvendrugun. If we
stopped breeding, Gao would not even go a hundred years before it was dark and
empty. Is it really so surprising that I might be proud to breed and raise the
next generation?"

"I guess not." He conceded.

"Not everybody can make a difference, Baseball. Not everybody _should_. I
respect what you and Warhorse do, and what Regaari does, but you would not be
here without… farmers, and builders and all the people who are content _not_
to make a difference. You would not exist without Mothers."

Baseball's hands were steady as he made sure she was as clean as possible, but
his voice was uncertain. "I guess…"

"Is something wrong?"

Baseball thought before replying. "Just in my head." he decided. "It's your
life, you do what you want with it. I guess I'm just not used to women who
_like_ raising kids and all that."

"What kind of woman _are_ you used to?" Ayma inquired.

"Heh. Women like Technical Sergeant Kovač, or Corporal Deacon, or Major
Jackson I guess."

"I don't know them." Ayma said. "Well, unless you mean the Major Jackson who
was your species' first FTL pilot?"

"Yeah, she's working with Public Relations a lot these days, and she and Major
Powell are a thing. Not sure how much of a thing, but a thing. She's pretty
cool. "

"And who are the other two?"

"Kovač is our spacesuit guru. Brain like you wouldn't believe. Pretty sure
she's sweet on 'Horse, too, but she's biding her time. Deacon's fun. She's one
of Firth's support techs, got small hands and strong shoulders. Conditioner?"

"What does it do?" Ayma asked, studying the offered bottle suspiciously.

"Should help with the itching."

Ayma almost snatched it from him. "Oh, by all the Clans, yes please!"

Base was right, the second he started rubbing the _'conditioner'_ in, the
worst of the itching faded away. "You know… if you ever retire from the SOR
and find that you need a replacement career, you would be well received on Gao
as a masseuse." she told him.

"Strong but gentle, huh?"

"I am yet to meet a human who isn't."

Base chuckled, and handed her the conditioner bottle, which she set to work
soothing her itching chest and abdomen. "But… I mean, you let me know if I'm
getting too personal, but did you grow up and become a Mother and that was it?
How do you know this is your calling if you never tried anything else?"

"Oh, I did." Ayma revealed. "I took a research position at a Clan Highmountain
observatory when I was young. The same one that discovered Gorai, our first
colony world. But… I met my first mate there, we had a healthy female cub
together, and… I immediately knew that _this_ was what I wanted to do."

Baseball didn't respond, but he seemed to relax, smiled and nodded.

"You approve?" Ayma guessed.

"Like I said: S'just not what I'm used to, but I feel you. Finding the thing
you _know_ you wanna do in life."

He grabbed the showerhead. "Final rinse."

"Let's get it over with…" Ayma sighed, and shut her eyes, feeling the hot
water sluice the conditioner out of her fur. She just _knew_ that her ears and
whiskers were drooping piteously.

Eventually, the ordeal was over, and Baseball grabbed an enormous white towel.
"Okay. Get dry."

"I need the towel to get dry." Ayma told him.

"Nuh-ah. This is for my protection."

"…Oh."

She sighed, aware that shaking water out was completely undignified and
uncivilized… but also highly effective. Base raised the towel to shield
himself and Ayma sighed inwardly, dropped to all fours and liberally covered
the inside of the bathroom with water droplets.

It felt irritatingly cathartic and, just to spite Baseball for making her do
it, she shook again a second time when he peeked over the towel, then stood up
again.

Baseball wiped his face off. "Did you _have_ to?" he complained.

"No, but you didn't have to make me dry off like an animal." Ayma retorted,
and took the towel from him.

She threw the enormous cloth around her in a kind of rough toga and dried her
limbs. Base handed her a second one. "You're really bothered by that." he
noted.

"Wouldn't _you_ be?"

"Not really. We're animals. Why try an' pretend otherwise?" Base shrugged. "We
walk around, we eat stuff, breathe… animals."

"Personally, I aspire to be more." Ayma sniffed, scrubbing the towel into the
top and back of her head.

"Me too! But you don't get there by forgettin' what you are." Base opened the
door.

If the inside of the bathroom had been humid and fragrant, the main room
smelled mostly of hot air, moisture and wet Gaoian. Regaari was sitting
miserably still while being methodically blasted by some kind of hand-held hot
air gun while Ares combed and brushed his fur. Already there was a… fluffy…
quality to him that just didn't look dignified.

He gave Ayma an affronted look that communicated quite clearly that he blamed
her for his current predicament.

"Ah. This must be that _'blow-drying'_ I heard so much about." Ayma hazarded.

Base produced a second hot air gun. "Yup."

"Is there any chance that I could…?"

"Nope."

There was no appropriate word in Gaori. Fortunately, there were several
appropriate ones in English, and Ayma dutifully selected one as she sat on the
bed and awaited her turn.

"…_Shit."_

**Date Point 10y4m1w AV**  
**Allied Extrasolar Command, Scotch Creek, British Columbia, Canada.**

**_General Martin Tremblay_**

"A nanofactory."

"Yup." Major Nadeau grinned. "A full-sized industrial one. Kwmbwrw tech, which
puts it about five hundred years ahead of the prototype in Dusseldorf."

"Which is a good seven years from being switched on anyway." Colonel Bartlett
added.

Tremblay inspected the summary that Kirk had sent them, after a long and tense
absence.

After ten years of living at the Scotch Creek facility and seeing it go from
research center to the sprawling nerve center of extrasolar defence, one thing
he'd become thoroughly acquainted with was advanced technology. He might not
be able to write the field equations from memory like Nadeau and Bartlett
could, but when it came to spotting the strategic implications of every new
piece of alien gear that came their way, he prided himself on leading the
pack.

It felt good not to be playing catch-up with the geniuses.

"Suddenly, I feel a good deal more optimistic." he mused. "We're _sure_ it's
Kirk?"

His intelligence advisor, Lieutenant-Colonel Clarke, pursed his lips
thoughtfully. "Psychologically he's yellow at worst, but until somebody with
need-to-know on DEEP RELIC presses a scanner to his head, he's orange." he
declared.

Tremblay sucked some air thoughtfully through his teeth. "Orange", in the
parlance of their system for classifying the likelihood that a given person
was carrying a Hierarchy agent meant _'high risk'._ He would almost have
preferred red - _'strongly suspected'_ \- or even a conclusive black.

"And he's not prepared to drop the shield and let anybody in?"

"No, sir. No jump beacons, no traffic. Not until Lewis Beverote finishes…
whatever it is he's going to finish. Until then, it's communication only."

"What, does he think we're riddled with Hierarchy ourselves?" Nadeau asked.

"Either he's being commendably cautious…" Clarke said, "or else he's
compromised. We have no conclusive way of knowing."

"And Beverote needs to know what we need in order to put the factory to best
use." Tremblay read off the bottom of the report.

He tapped his thumb on the table to help him think. "…Shit."

"Yup." Clarke agreed.

Nadeau cleared his throat. "Sirs?"

"…We're at an impasse." Tremblay explained. "Can't trust him, can't gain his
trust. Until we _know_ he's not Hierarchy, we can't give him anything useful
to do without potentially tipping our hand as to long-term strategy, and both
he and that nanofactory are too valuable to waste on makework. We need to
secure them, for better or worse."

"What about this ship he mentions?" Clarke mused. "The _Negotiable
Curiosity_?"

"True. if Kirk's an active agent for the Hierarchy then including that detail
in his report makes little sense…" Tremblay drummed his fingers on the desk
some more, then reached a decision and stood.

"Bartlett, Nadeau: You're dismissed. Thank you."

Both men stood, nodded, and made their exit. Tremblay turned to Clarke.

"I want to sent a JETS team after that ship."

"Isn't chasing a spaceship the SOR's job?" Clarke asked.

"Too valuable, and still recovering from Capitol Station. Still, ships can't
fly forever. Eventually they're going to land somewhere…"

"…and JETS can pick them up when they do." Clarke nodded. "So, we need our
informants to keep watch for this thing."

Tremblay paced by his window, thumb pressed thoughtfully to his chin. "Do we
have anything on this Bedu character?"

"I'll find out." Clarke promised. "Who were you thinking of sending?"

"I'll ask our colleagues down south for an STS element, I think. And we'll
need a V-Class, obviously."

Clarke nodded. "That should buy trust with Kirk if he's not compromised." he
agreed. "Not to mention whatever intel we can get from that ship and its
crew."

"They'll be pawns." Tremblay predicted. He sat back down and started to
compose his requests and orders. "Still. You never know…"

**Date Point 10y4m1w AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Lewis Beverote_**

There was an idea forming.

Okay. That wasn't accurate. There were _several_ ideas forming. Thousands.
Most, so far as Lewis could tell, were completely batfuck crazy and of no
practical use, ripped straight from the pages of old scifi novels. A factory
that could turn an entire asteroid belt into an ocean of unmanned space
fighters? Great idea, if only they weren't fighting a digital species that
didn't even live in the real world.

Some kind of poison to induce implant rejection? Would have also induced fatal
encephalitis.

And those were just the _pertinent_ ideas, the ones that came even vaguely
close to addressing the challenge that Kirk hat set him: Saving the Earth from
the Hierarchy.

Some of his ideas were just crazy. Using forcefields to brew the perfectly
aerated espresso. A field equation that proved that it was possible to build a
Niven Ring if you used a solar-enclosing forcefield to power _another_
forcefield that was powerful enough to overcome the tensile strength problem,
after which point the only real obstacles were time and material. Twenty
kilometer tall robots piloted by an uploaded human brain and powered by a
captive black hole. The potential weaponization of mice, opera and the Big
Mac. A nutritionally balanced and, importantly, _palatable_ portable ration to
replace the nutrient sphere, derived from maize and rice.

Okay, maybe that last one wasn't so crazy.

The point was… all the data in the world was useless without context. How
could you even start thinking about saving a planet from an implacably
genocidal species of sapient software who held the lives of ninety percent of
the galaxy's population to ransom?

He'd been chewing it over for _weeks_. Fine, save the world. Great. But every
scrap of data he was learning about every discipline he could think of was
only doing more and more and more to convince him that there was nothing he
could do.

Kirk hadn't visited in a few days. Vedreg's chromatophore strips had a sickly,
cautious quality to them. Every conversation ended in an argument, in rage, in
futility.

There was, he knew deep in his bones, just no way that he could save Earth.

And that was where the idea was coming from. The idea was this:

If it was true that once you had eliminated the impossible, whatever remained
- however improbable - must be the truth, then it followed that once you had
eliminated all of the impossible _courses of action_, then whatever options
remained - however dubious the odds of success - must be the one to go for.

When Lewis came to speak this thought out loud, it didn't sound half as good
as it had in his head.

He simplified it to something he preferred: _"If you can't do what you'd like,
do what you can."_

He couldn't save the Earth.

But, he was beginning to suspect, he _might just_ be able to save the human
race.

He deleted his files and started over.

**Date Point 10y4m1w AV**  
**[Theodore Roosevelt National Park, North Dakota, United States, Earth](http://imgur.com/a/FA9dQ)**

**_Regaari_**

Major Powell was practically radiating unease, not that Regaari could blame
him. After all, what Regaari was about to do was a calculated risk that would
have incredibly serious repercussions for the major if it went wrong.

"You're certain about this?" he repeated, for what must have been the
thirtieth time.

"I'm certain, major. You worry after me like a Mother with a sickly cub!"

"Aye, I suppose I do…"

Ayma made a nervous noise. "He really is not the only one. Regaari, this isn't
wise."

"Aye." Powell agreed. "This is a risky endeavor…"

"And a rewarding one, personally and professionally, for both of us." Regaari
insisted. "Now please. My mind is made up: I'm doing this."

'This', meant unadulterated, unfiltered immersion in the alien beauty of the
landscape that surrounded them. He and Ayma were, after all, visiting the most
dangerous temperate planet outside of Nightmare known to exist, and that
sparked his adventurous spirit in a way that surprised even himself. How could
he not explore such a place?

Of course, when comparing Nightmare and Earth, the question of which was "most
dangerous" was open to some interpretation. Nightmare had seasonal extremes
unseen on any other temperate world and those extremes drove a boom-bust
lifecycle that even the Earth couldn't match. This in turn inspired absolutely
vicious flora and fauna during the resource-rich summer and a deep, torpid
sloth during the long, long winters.

And yet…

Clan Highmountain - ever the scientists and farsighted thinkers - had once
sent an expedition to Nightmare, looking for clues to what awaited Gao in the
future millions of years of its slow ascent into Deathworld status.
Nightmare's highly eccentric orbit had turned out to be surprisingly bad for
diversity: with the whole planet being freezing cold for two thirds of its
year and with a scorching hot summer sandwiched by brief, mild equinoxes,
biome variation was almost nonexistent. Nightmare was essentially a single,
worldwide temperate rainforest, having a remarkably uniform catalog of species
from pole to pole. Every last one of which were impressively lethal, to be
sure, but nothing like the rich diversity of what Earth had on offer.

Earth had so many ecologies that it boggled the mind.

To Regaari's thinking that made it more dangerous, and far more interesting.
The regular seasons might have made it easier to plan for and gather resources
such as food, but even a day's walk away may find a hapless wanderer in a
totally different environment, surrounded by unforeseen lurking dangers. The
very idea of being able to stand on a desert hilltop and see lush grassland,
or gaze across a wide river to see forest on one bank and swamp on the other
was compelling.

There were political calculations involved beyond his genuine desire to see
what the humans called "Mother Nature". Yes, the award he was due to receive
from the "British" was a massive propaganda victory for Clan Whitecrest, but
the real value would be in the footage of a Gaoian - a Whitecrest - walking
unaided and (mostly) unprotected on the most infamous of Deathworlds. That
would go down well at home.

It was certainly going down well on Earth. The reporters that dogged his and
Ayma's every step were being kept at a respectful distance, shooting video
with long-throw lenses and drones that were, next to galactic technology,
shocking primitive but still elegantly functional in their design and
execution.

He recognised major Jackson, standing politely near to the reporters. She had
spent time in front of many of them in turn, answering questions, putting on a
smiling face, controlling the official Allied take on Regaari's experiment,
and occasionally conversing with Powell to pin down some minute detail of
their message.

Deciding that he'd pontificated long enough, he glanced at Warhorse who was
fiddling nervously with a pouch on his tactical vest, then at Ayma. Both gave
him a reluctant nod.

Regaari gulped, read his hazard detector one last time and confirmed the air
was currently safe to breathe, stepped out onto the bluff, deactivated the
forcefield around his head, and _breathed._

He immediately erected the shield again. The experience hadn't been unpleasant
- far from it - but it had been the olfactory equivalent of walking into a
room where loud music was playing. The nose needed time to adjust.

This time, he scaled down the field intensity by degrees, allowing more and
more of Earth's rich, warm, moist air to reach his nostrils until finally the
field was gone and he could immerse himself in the full perfumed glory of it.

It was _beautiful._

There were so many, many, many different and competing aromas, some subtle,
some cloying, others brutally intense. For a long while he just stood there
and drank in the bouquet of Earth, letting it suffuse him and change him. He
had never experienced anything quite like it and he knew that he would later
spend hours describing this little aspect of his adventure to his Brothers,
all the while failing to properly convey it.

Behind him, he was dimly aware of cameras clicking and whirring madly as they
recorded his obvious pleasure.

The second thing he noticed were the sounds. Once the cameras had died down a
bit and the Park Rangers encouraged some quiet, the gentle, subtle sound of
everything came to him. Life was here. Life in such enormous variety that it
humbled what one might find anywhere else. Life in all of its tiny,
scuttering, careful beauty. He twitched an ear as something small moved
restlessly in a nearby bush, no doubt scared still by all this activity. A
flying animal of some kind whirred as it burst out of one bush, undulated over
a hundred meters of ground in three short bursts of powered flight, and
vanished into another bush.

There was more to be seen than would be gained by simply standing still and
let it come to him. He wanted to explore, and so he opened his eyes and set
off on a tour with the Park Rangers who, casting the occasional glance at
Warhorse, set about showed him things that challenged his perception of what a
Deathworld really was.

First was the stunning, complex interplay of life itself. There was so much of
it, even here, even in what was allegedly a rugged and comparatively empty
part of the planet. The weathered badlands were far, far from dead and empty:
They were utterly alive with flowers and shrubs and insects too numerous to
count, buzzing and rustling in the breeze and each contributing to the loud
but delicate nasal symphony.

Earth, the most infamous Deathworld in the galaxy, was bursting at the seams
with life.

The tour wound on. Gaining in confidence, the park rangers picked out some
binoculars and began to point out wildlife both nearby and distant. They
steered him away from a fat, humming bee (a real danger, if it were to sting
him) directed his binoculars to a bison (so big!) pointed out some nearby
rabbits (which vanished when startled, so quickly that Regaari barely saw them
do it) and off in the distance, a mighty, fearsome grizzly bear (that creature
made even the well-armed Park Rangers nervous).

He watched it stand on its hind legs, aim its nose at them, sniff the air, the
drop onto all fours and beat a dignified retreat. The bison had done something
similar.

"It's… running away?"

The park ranger nodded. "He's just staying out of our way." she agreed.

"Why?" Ayma asked.

"We're an unknown to him and may be risky. Most animals will keep to
themselves unless they're forced to interact."

"That seems wise, I suppose." Ayma conceded.

"It's deceptive." Regaari mused. "I know that bear is a dangerous animal, but
from this far away it almost seems…comical and fuzzy."

"Maybe, but he's decidedly not." the ranger told him. "Like you said, that
bear is far away. Up close, a specimen that big is a threat to even a bison.
His has claws are about THIS long, his teeth are THIS big, and he's stronger
than any human alive."

The Major huffed quietly at that, a slight grin on his face. Regaari would ask
about that later.

"Anyway, that's why we're keeping our distance, and I think he has the same
idea."

"But surely that bear would not fear us!"

"Hard to say." the male ranger chipped in. "Bears are unpredictable precisely
because they're so large and powerful. If he was hungry? Perhaps he may have
investigated, but a good dose of pepper spray in its face would likely have
scared it off. A mother protecting her cubs? Well…that's a story we didn't
need to tell today."

Ayma chittered at that. "Ah. That sounds familiar."

The warden smiled at her, maybe not quite understanding the source of her
amusement. "…But for the most part? He'd probably keep his distance,
especially of a group this large. Wildlife is generally shy."

"…shy? Why would he be shy?" Regaari asked.

"Because he's smarter than the average bear." the female ranger commented.
There were chuckles at that, meaning that it was presumably some in-joke or
pop culture reference that Regaari had yet to encounter. "We're dangerous and
he damn well knows it."

Ayma's ears twisted as she watched the bear pause atop a slight swell in the
terrain and look back. "Understandable, but in that case why are we avoiding
it?"

"Because _he's_ dangerous." the male ranger replied. "Which means that too
close an encounter would end with him dead and maybe someone here hurt,
probably quite badly. And none of us want either of those things."

That struck Regaari as a very human thing to say - All the destructive ability
in the galaxy, and no desire to do so. At least, not here, and not now.

"Anyway, he's not even the biggest threat. There's a pack of wolves yonder-"
he pointed, and both Gaoians raised their binoculars. Regaari fancied that he
saw a flash of fur among the distant grasses. "-that's been skirting the
outside of our sight, watching us. They know us." he gestured to his partner
and himself "…but don't know you or anyone else here."

"Wolves? Surely those would be a danger! I've read they were feared for
millennia." Ayma sounded genuinely alarmed.

"They don't usually attack humans, not unless they're desperate." the female
ranger reassured her. "And even they'd rather avoid the risk. Here, in this
place? Attacking prey is dangerous. What if you were a wolf, and that bison
turned around and gored you? You would be broken and a liability to the pack.
Would you survive? The pack would bring you food and such, but what if you
didn't heal? A broken bone is practically a death sentence in the wild. What
if the wound became infected?"

She smiled fondly at the wolves while the Gaoians mulled that point over.

"So how do they hunt, then?" Regaari asked. "They must take some risk."

"They go after the sick and isolated and obviously weak, or smaller things
like the rabbits. They won't attempt larger and more dangerous prey unless
they must. And, hell, sometimes rival predators decide to be friends. We've
seen it more than once, particularly with bears and wolves."

"Wh…friends? Why would they cooperate?" Regaari asked.

"Why not? Instead of competing for the same resource, why not share? We see it
mostly with lone male wolves and bears. They may align for a season and hunt
together. It increases the chance of a kill, after all. But beyond that, they
do genuinely seem to enjoy company. We see polar bears up north, for example,
playing with sled dogs when no food advantage at all exists."

"Dexter."

Regaari turned to Warhorse, who was monitoring something on a tablet. "Wind's
picking up south of here and the pollen count's rising. Gotta call it, man."

Regaari nodded sadly and allowed himself one last, full immersion in what his
nose was telling him. He very much doubted he would ever get another chance.
"Last chance." he told Ayma.

She paused, then bobbled her head sideways - a no. "I'm not of Whitecrest
stock." she reminded him. "What you can enjoy might… I'm happy, anyway."

Regaari duck-nodded, and, with one last blissful sniff, raised his shield
again. Warhorse ran the medical scanner over him the instant it was fully up.

"…You're probably gonna have a runny nose and watering eyes tonight." he
decided. Baseball promptly burrowed in his bag and produced some
antihistamines.

"We'll need to thoroughly scrub that fur out." Adam added, as Regaari accepted
one and swallowed it with a little water. "But… yeah, I reckon you're fine."

Baseball, Powell and the two rangers visibly relaxed.

They strolled gently back up the hill toward the waiting entourage of
reporters, which Regaari could tell that Powell was doing his best not to
scowl at. "Feel like making a statement?" the major asked.

"I think I have just the thing."

They strayed close enough for microphones and cameras to be thrust in their
direction and a clamour of questions that only quieted when major Jackson
raised her hands and pleaded for peace.

Regaari had been choosing his words with care all the way up the slope. "That
was an experience I know I shall never forget." he said. "The word _'Earth'_
doesn't quite translate properly into Gaori. We have a word for dirt and mud,
another word for the ground beneath our feet… but I think having been here to
see and hear and smell all of this, the word that fits best is _'Yei'_ which
means… well, it means a place where things grow."

Lots of deathworlder teeth became visible as the journalists collectively
grinned and started spinning that soundbite while Powell and the Protectors
gently escorted Ayma and Regaari away from them.

Warhorse was the first to speak, once they were out of earshot. "Bro. That was
a real nice thing to say." he enthused.

Ayma chittered. "He could talk a summer flower into blooming in winter,
couldn't he?" she asked rhetorically, using a Gaoian idiom.

"Aye. Silver-tongued, so he is." Powell agreed, using a human one.

Regaari admitted a smug little dip of his ears, but didn't feel remotely
embarrassed by the praise. "It was nothing," he told them "but the truth."

**Date Point 10y4m1w AV**  
**Cairo, Egypt, Earth.**

**_Master Sergeant Roy Vinther_**

Sergeant Coombes was getting nervous. _"There's that guy again… Orange Five."_

"You know the drill, BOUNCER." Vinther ordered. "Stay casual, just keep
walking."

_"When are we gonna get a fuckin' go on this thing?"_

"Soon as we've got grounds to upgrade these fuckers to Red. You out of sight
yet?"

_"Made the corner, yeah. Got a good look at the guy, looks like he might be
our Yemeni victim."_

"Looks like?"

There was silence and a couple of clicks on the line - Thomson must have been
walking past civilians and unable to speak. Some seconds later, he was able to
reply. _"Looks a lot like."_

Vinther glanced over to where Staff Sergeant Walsh, their "intel weenie", was
sat behind him in the nondescript van they'd parked a hundred yards or so from
the suspicious site. The description was a joke and a farcical one: Walsh was
a Combat Controller with Duty and Secondary AFSCs in ops intel. He'd been
forced out of the early SOR highway by an injury, making him by far the
biggest guy on the operation. Not SOR-big, but still a large, strong dude,
with an even larger, stronger brain.

Walsh got on the line himself. "BOUNCER, DRINKIN' BUDDY. Scale of one to ten?"

_"Solid eight for ya, DRINKIN' BUDDY."_

Walsh nodded, then frowned at his tablet. _"Convoy. Comin' in from the north.
Two SUVs, a van and a pickup."_

Vinther checked with their guy on a nearby rooftop, Staff Sergeant Porter.
"HANGOVER, you got eyes on?"

_"Sure do, BARKEEP. Headed right past you."_

Everyone promptly scooted down in their chairs so as to be invisible. They
didn't move or make a noise until the eight vehicles had rumbled past.

_"BARKEEP, HANGOVER. They went into the compound."_

"Walsh…?" Vinther asked, over his shoulder.

"Red." Walsh decided.

"That's a red." Vinther declared, for the Delta Force team to hear. "Go for
stage two, just like we planned."

Stage two took advantage of the quiet and careful reconnaissance they'd made
on the compound, an old _souk_ that had been long since converted into a
warehouse or workshop of some kind, enclosing a large open area. It was a
thoroughly permeable structure, but that worked both ways - plenty of ways in,
and plenty of ways for hostiles to slip out or wait in ambush.

Vinther and Walsh had the "low-risk" approach - a corner of the building where
an old window had been covered over with some drapes and not much else.
Thompson had already checked it and declared that a stealthy ingress that way
should be thoroughly do-able. They grabbed their M4s, were out of the van and
up to the old _souk_ in seconds.

Vinther took point. It was the work of seconds to move the drapes aside, pull
himself through, and wave Walsh in after him.

Their radio clicked. _"BARKEEP, HANGOVER." he was whispering, sub-vocalising
into his mic. "Shit's moving down here, they got two hostages, so we better
pick it up - Oh Jesus fucking Christ…."_

Vinther and Walsh exchanged a frown. HANGOVER was a professional. Hearing him
so upset was jarring. "Sitrep"

_"They took her brain out, what the fuck? What the… fuck. Oh_ **_God"_**

"They _what?"_

"Black. We're fucking black. We need the fucking Rangers in here _right now."_
Walsh hissed.

"Call 'em." Vinther agreed, aware that Walsh had probably sent that on all
channels just for the few extra seconds it'd earn. He darted up the hallway
they were in and to a doorway, carefully swept his gun around the whole room
as he stepped over the threshold. Once happy that it was clear, he scurried
over to the window that looked into the courtyard.

About a half-dozen people were standing around watching invisible forcefields
delicately, bloodlessly and seamlessly reassemble a woman's head. Restrained
next to her was a weeping younger woman with a strong family resemblance to
the victim and vomit down her front. Even as he watched, the forcefields
dropped the victim delicately onto her feet. She blinked and looked around and
then, without any speech or apparent communication at all, stepped over to
help one of the others in picking up her terrified former family member.

"BOUNCER, you got a shot?" Vinther asked.

"Yeah."

"Take it."

The unfortunate new biodrone's head burst. The hostage screamed and collapsed,
hands flailing as her other captor met a similarly decisive end. She wrapped
herself into a tight ball with her hands over her head as the remaining
biodrones reacted as a single unit, drawing guns and firing at BOUNCER's
position.

Vinther took his own shot, and watched in astonishment as it clearly
ricocheted off something solid between him and his target that he couldn't
see. Rapid-fire and the lightning-strike detonation of flashbangs at multiple
points around the compound heralded the arrival of the Rangers.

"Watch the hostage!" he ordered on an open channel, and lined up another shot.

He didn't get to take it. Something made of _nothing_ swallowed the last of
the biodrones, and there was a roaring, shrieking noise as a very large and
completely invisible object kicked up dust and loose objects. A flapping cloth
hanging from the wall caught on it as it rose, and, sensing valuable intel
afoot, Vinther kept his helmet cam trained on it as the cloth draped across it
and revealed its outline.

It looked for all the world like a classic flying saucer.

The cloth slid off, the howl of UFO engines hit a peak, and it was gone with a
sonic boom. For a few seconds, some last gunfire rattled around the old
_souk_, and then the all-clear came in. A Ranger medic double-timed over to
the hostage, who was wailing and cradling her loved one's body, and Vinther
relaxed.

Walsh was beside him. "Holy. Shit."

"Yeah. Did you fucking _see_ that?"

"I saw." Walsh nodded.

"A spaceship. They have a fucking spaceship on Earth."

Walsh nodded again, and rubbed at his brow. "Well," he said. "'Least we know
about it now…"

**Date Point 10y4m1w1d AV**  
**Saint James's Palace, London, England, Earth**

**_Major Owen Powell_**

Admiral Sir Patrick Knight was in his element surrounded by ancient brickwork
and the bustle of the working palace, guiding the VIPs and their Protectors
into the back of some understated black cars before stepping into one himself.
He seemed to fit in at the very heart of Britain's constitutional monarchy,
unlike Powell, who'd spent so many days now involved in the business of the
Gaoian diplomatic tour that he was about ready to throw himself at the walls
to burn off his excess energy.

Goodness knew how Burgess and Ares were faring - between the fact that their
own routines far exceeded his for strenuousness, and the much greater
atmospheric oxygen relative to what they were used to in Folctha, he would
have expected them to be fizzing by now. That they were holding it together
was at once both surprising and encouraging.

"Penny for your thoughts, Powell?"

He jumped slightly as Rylee Jackson, who somehow managed to be quiet even in
the hard heels of her Air Force "blues", stepped up beside him and gave him a
gentle touch on the elbow. Any more affectionate gesture than that would have
to wait for back in the hotel.

He rubbed at his chin to cover the startle. "Just findin' it a bit strange
that two American lads under my command are off to meet the King, and I'm sat
here twiddlin' me thumbs until they come back." he mused.

"Jealous?" she asked, teasingly.

Powell watched the motorcade depart and turn towards the Mall. "Yes an' no."
he decided.

Jackson looked around. "We've got half an hour before they're due back,
nothing to do in that time and you're on edge. I know it's not much next to
your usual regimen, but why don't we take a stroll, get a look at the place?
I've always wanted to visit England."

"Aye, that sounds nice." Powell agreed. "Bloody nice weather, too."

"If you say so." she half-smiled, and picked at the blue pullover sweater she
had on over her shirt. "It's kinda cold for my tastes."

"Blue sky." he pointed out.

She rolled her eyes and her smile got a little broader. "Oh, yeah. Break out
the beer and hot dogs."

This got a chuckle out of him. "Arright. Not sure where we can stroll _to_
around here though."

"That's fine. let's just get away from those cameras."

They did so, heading away from the stable yard and hugging the wall until
suddenly they found a secluded spot where nobody could see them. Powell felt a
hand on his upper arm and when he turned to check on her she surprised him
with a brief, but tender, kiss.

He blinked, and laughed. "That was nice. What was it for?"

"Come on, how often do you get to sneak a kiss in the grounds of a royal
palace?" she grinned and, with a tilt of her head, suggested they should start
walking again. "I know, I know, we're on the job, there's media around, I
should be more careful…"

"Oi." Powell chuckled at her. "I won't tell if you don't. I like the thrill of
a little danger meself."

"Fuckin' A!" she nodded, then put a hand to her mouth guiltily. "Probably
shouldn't swear here."

"It's not fookin' church." Powell teased.

Their stroll took them back around an internal corner of the stable yard, and
back into view of a news crew. "So… what did you mean by _'yes and no'_?"
Rylee asked him.

Powell shrugged. "I never met the King, but they have that tradition of
service… I remember there was this interview Harry gave, when he was crewin'
Apaches in Afghanistan. Summat came up and he just ripped the mic off and
belted for his machine with 'is mates. I've got a lotta respect for 'em in
that regard. You know better'n anyone, it's gotta be hard bein' military and
bein' a celebrity at the same time."

"Tell me about it." She kept a professionally neutral face as the camera
turned to watch them pass. Just two officers going about their business,
rather than two… _close_ friends enjoying each others' company.

"So, yeah on _that_ level I've got a lot of respect for His Majesty and the
lads. But…" Powell checked they weren't in earshot of anybody. "I'unno. I've
always been summat of a republican meself."

"Isn't the King your commander-in-chief?"

"Aye. An', don't get me wrong, I take that fookin' seriously. So long as
that's how it works, I'll go wi' it. But if there was a referendum tomorrow
about becoming… I dunno, the United British Republic or summat like that? I
know which way I'd vote. I'd rather have a proper constitution than all…" he
waved a hand at the Tudor opulence around them. "-this."

"Pity." Rylee mused.

"Don't tell me you're a monarchist?" Powell asked her.

"It seems to work for this country. It just wouldn't be _Britain_ somehow
without it, you know?"

"It's not like all those buildings and stuff would just go away. Hell, it's
not like we'd roll out the fookin' guillotine, neither." Powell pointed out.

"Yeah, I know. Just…" she sighed and smiled at the brickwork. "I dunno.
Somehow, I think the magic would go out of it."

"They're just blokes." Powell pointed out. "Nice blokes, sure. Probably. But
they shit just like the rest of us… and I bet they're fed the fook up with
cameras, too."

"Hmm. Too bad all of the princes and princesses who're old enough aren't
single."

"Now there's a fookin' original fantasy nobody's ever had before…" Powell
retorted, knowing full well she was only teasing.

She laughed again. "Yeah, and it's not like I need the visibility, is it?"

"Money'd be nice." He suggested.

"Eh. Maybe. Y'know, I don't know what I'd do with more money?"

"Aye. Me either."

"So is that why you didn't go with?" she asked. "I mean, you commanded the
mission…"

"Same reason you turned down the Medal of Honor." Powell told her. Jackson had
summarily dismissed any suggestion that she should receive it even though the
President had practically jumped at the chance to give her one after her
mission-saving stunt during Operation Nova Hound. Current scuttlebutt had it
that she'd be getting an Air Force Cross instead. "I don't need the publicity,
I don't-"

"Powell, I turned down the MOH because the politicians don't like letting
_'heroes'-"_ she gave the word a contemptuous flourish that suggested she
thought of herself as anything but "-put themselves back in harms' way.
Accepting it would have ended my career. I can _handle_ publicity and fame,
even though I bitch about it. But I'll fight tooth and nail to keep my wings."

"Wouldn't know what to do wi' yourself without them, huh?"

She shook her head. "Would you know what to do with yourself without the SOR?"

Powell bobbled his head, conceding the point. "Guess I wouldn't… that ain't
gonna end well for either of us though. You know that, right?"

She nodded. "Yup. Either we live long enough that something forces us to
retire, or we get our asses KIA."

She checked to make sure they weren't overheard, then leaned in
conspiratorially. "Don't tell anyone I said this, but sometimes? I feel like
I'd prefer the latter. It scares me less."

Powell nodded. _"To die will be an awfully big adventure."_ he quoted.

She nodded. "Peter Pan? That's us alright. Scared to grow up."

"Christ, when you put it like that it almost sounds fookin' cowardly."

"Peter Pan _was_ a coward."

"He was a child. Immature. Not the same thing."

"Great, so either we're cowards or we're childish." She grinned, but there was
an uncertain edge to it, and she stopped suddenly. "Do you think that's true?
Either of them?"

Powell shook his head. "I'm walkin' around wi' a woman who literally took a
fookin' bullet for me." he said. "An' she did it fightin' cannibal fookin'
monsters from outer space who want the whole human race dead. How much more
mature or brave do you want?"

"Don't-"

"No. Harden up and accept the praise that's due ye."

She sighed and waved a conceding hand. "From you? Okay. But only from you."

Powell smiled with her and they resumed their stroll. "I coulda gone with." he
said, gesturing toward Buckingham Palace. "But, this is a diplomatic thing.
Strengthening ties. Best to let Regaari stand out in the clear, aye?"

"What's he receiving, anyway?"

"The George Medal. For acts of bravery in, or meriting recognition by, the
United Kingdom. Though, I hear they'd have preferred to take the time and
commission a whole new medal recognising gallantry by ETs, but…"

"Not enough time?"

"If we get through this whole visit wi'out summat goin' catastrophically
wrong, I'll consider it a bloody miracle." Powell grumbled. "Five fookin'
days. Five! I've run some hasty bodge-job ops in my time, but five days'
notice to babysit a couple of ETs around a planet that's become a fookin'
byword for deadliness up there…" he jerked his head skyward "Just about wins
the prize."

"Worth it, though."

Powell scratched the side of his head, thoughtfully. "You think?"

"You said it yourself, Dexter saved the mission." Rylee pointed out. "And I've
met Gaoians myself. If you ask me, we want them as allies."

Powell rubbed his jaw uncertainly. "I reviewed Warhorse's helmet cam footage.
Regaari? He fookin' deserves what he's receiving today. It's the rest of his
species I'm not so sure on. An' to be honest, even a scrappy little gaffer
like him… I mean, what would an alliance even look like? If we were to do
joint trainin' and it turns out they wouldn't wind up slowing our lads down?
I'll eat my fookin' beret, badge and all. They're not deathworlders."

"Wanna bet?"

"Absolutely." he nodded. "If we ally with the Gaoians, it'll be nice, but
we'll be the ones doin' all the hard graft. Bet you."

"You're on." Rylee grinned. "Though, I'll be kind and have a cake replica
made. No sense in wasting a good beret. Fair?"

"Aye? So either I'm right, or I eat a cake. Not exactly a fookin' lose-lose,
is it?"

"Fine, fine." She laughed. "Loser treats the winner to a nice meal. Somewhere
fancy."

"Oh, aye. Yeah." Powell rolled his eyes. "A date with you's _way_ worse than
eatin' cake."

"That's my cruellest offer, you sarcastic sadist." she waved a mock-scolding
finger. "Besides, you'll be paying."

"Only if I lose."

"Oh you'll lose." She told him. "I promise."

"Done." Powell glanced toward Buckingham Palace again. "…An' I hope to God
you're right."

**The Mall, London, England, Earth**

**_Ava Rios._**

"Is that them? I think that's them!"

"Sean, for crying out loud…"

"What? It's kind of a big deal, Ava. Aliens visiting London? And we have front
row seats!"

"Yeah, but that's not them."

"Oh…"

Sean deflated, and Ava fidgeted with her camera.

They had front row seats all right. They had _press_ seats courtesy of Simon
Harvey, who'd figured that alien VIPs in the heart of London was a decent
starting point to test his young apprentices before they got on to the real
deal.

"Okay. _That's_ them." Sean asserted, as a convoy of black cars turned onto
the Mall and processed with dignified slowness in their direction. Ava had to
agree.

Cameras were being focused all around, and she raised her own, doing her best
to stay on top of doing her _job_, when her mouth was dry and her heart
pounding.

Simon put a hand on her upper back, in a reassuring avuncular way. "Nervous?"

"Part of me hopes he'll see me, part of me hopes he won't…"

Simon patted her shoulder. "You're fine. You've got this."

She nodded, and kept her eye to the viewfinder as the cars stopped in a
genteel semicircle behind the barriers, under the watchful gaze of
Metropolitan Police in their high-vis yellow jackets that reminded her so much
of Cimbrean Colonial Security.

To her dismay, Adam stepped out of the car first. A sea of people near the
front of the crowd earned Ava's immediate hatred by going mad for him - she
took a picture, framing him versus them as he awkwardly raised a hand to
acknowledge the attention before getting back to the job of tending to Regaari
as the Gaoian carefully levered himself out of the car.

By the time the VIPs were on their feet, had received the attention of the
crowd, and had been escorted into the palace, she'd managed to become totally
focused on taking pictures, while beside her Sean, armed with a tablet, did
his damnedest to keep up with the flow from her camera, swiping them into a
multitude of different folders for immediate upload and sale to whatever news
and stock image agencies couldn't be present to generate the pictures
themselves. Within hours, one of Ava's pictures would be on the front page of
a newspaper.

Adam was the last to be ushered into the building, and she finally relaxed as
it was closed behind him. He'd never even glanced at the press.

She met Simon's eye, and he nodded. "Well done." he told her.

It made her feel much better.

**Date Point 10y4m1w1d AV**  
**North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Allison Buehler was perched sidesaddle on the front of an elderly pickup,
elbows-deep in its engine. She was gracious enough to dignify Kevin's arrival
with turning her head, giving him a cool stare, and then calling for Julian,
who emerged from round the back of the house with a knife in one hand and an
uncomfortable reminder that meat was dead animal in the other. Not that Kevin
had ever not known that or been troubled by it, but a skinned goose carcass
was an unsettling sight if you weren't prepared for it.

Unless you were used to it, it seemed. Even Buehler gave it a slightly uneasy
glance as Etsicitty hung it by its feet from a hook under his house's eaves
and rinsed his hands from the garden hose.

"Shoot that yourself?" Kevin asked him, by way of an ice breaker.

"Nope, it was defeated in battle and committed hara-kiri." Julian told him,
and mimed handing him something. "Here's yer sign."

"…Huh?"

"Never mind… If you're here about the contract, we'll discuss it after
dinner."

"…Don't suppose I can convince you to discuss it earlier?" Kevin asked. "It's
not even noon yet."

"Nope." Etsicitty told him. "You can go an' come back, make yourself useful
or, hell, just take a stroll round the property. But we've got a lot to get
done while it's light."

Kevin considered his options, then decided he may as well ingratiate himself
by being useful. "Uh… you need a hand with that pickup, miss Buehler?"

She laughed. "You're gonna help me do engine maintenance in that suit? You're
a brave man, mister Jenkins."

Kevin shrugged the jacket off, threw it onto his passenger seat and rolled up
his sleeves. "Fuck it. Dry cleaning's a travel expense." he declared,
declining to mention the two spare suits in the trunk.

Buehler made a could-have-been impressed motion with her head, and waved a
hand that was black halfway to the elbow in the general direction of her
toolbox. "One and one-eighth."

Kevin ambled over to it, turned a few socket wrench heads over in his hands
until he found the right one, and handed it to her.

"Your enthusiasm's overwhelming." she muttered, leaning back into the engine
and ratcheting deep inside it. There was a kind of plastic spattering noise
from under the truck, which, when Kevin stooped to look, turned out to be
murky brown fluid gushing into an ancient yellow bucket.

"What're we doing?" he asked.

"Complete fluid change. This thing's not been driven in six years." Buehler
told him. "Water, brakes, transmission, oil… all of it."

The separator finished draining, and she slipped a hand deep into the engine
to close it off again.

"Where'd you learn how to do this?" Kevin asked her.

"Not being a fucking little girl about getting my hands dirty?" She asked.
"This isn't rocket science. These things are made to be maintained… Here." She
popped a filthy air filter out of its housing and shoved it into Kevin's
chest. "Replacement's in the garage."

Brushing dirt out of his shirt, Kevin followed instructions and head for the
garage. Etsicitty had vanished in there and was cleaning and sharpening his
knife.

"She doesn't like me much, I think." Kevin ventured, setting down the old
filter and collecting the new one.

"She doesn't hate you either." Julian replied calmly. "You'd know."

"Any advice?"

"Don't try and be her friend, 'cause you ain't. She values honesty, Jenkins.
You're not here to be our buddy, you're here to hire us. So, be real about
that if you wanna be on her good side."

"And you?"

Etsicitty tested the edge of his knife by effortlessly slicing a strip off a
sheet of paper. Apparently this was satisfactory, because the blade then
vanished into the leather sheath on his pocket in an easy, practiced motion.
"I like everybody if they don't give me a reason not to." he said.

"…Right."

Allison was waiting impatiently for the new filter when he ducked under the
ceiling canoe and stepped outside again. He tossed it to her. "How about alien
tech?" he asked.

Allison turned back around and easily installed the filter, closing the
housing with two firm snaps. "Why?"

"I AM here to get you on the payroll. Be useful to know what you can do."

She snorted. "It's idiot-proof. What more is there to say? No user-serviceable
parts, just pull the faulty module, order a replacement from the nanofactory,
plug it in. God knows what you're supposed to do if it it's the nanofac that's
busted, but…" She jumped down and wiped two greasy hand-prints onto her jeans.
"You're welcome to bow out of the oil change while that nice shirt's still
kinda clean."

"What, and play Triumvirate Online in the car for eight hours on company
time?" Kevin grunted. "Tempting, but no."

He caught the half-smirk that she covered by turning and digging under the car
for the bucket. "Suit yourself."

To Kevin's surprise, the work turned out to be enjoyable. Messy, yes, but
despite her frosty attitude Buehler did the bulk of the dirty work herself and
relegated Kevin to fetching wrench heads and buckets, storing nuts and parts
safely, and fetching the fresh fluids from the garage.

She even loosened up enough to give him a high-five when the truck grunted
into life around about noon. "Thanks. That goes a lot faster with two." she
told him, turning a cloth rag grey as she wiped the worst of the grime off her
palms onto it.

"I actually kinda enjoyed it." Kevin admitted.

"Feels good to work with your hands, yeah." She patted the truck
affectionately.

"What's next?"

"Next, I'm gonna clean up then take this thing for a drive, make sure it's
working okay." She replied. "Gotta get rid of the old oil and stuff properly,
pick up groceries, stuff like that."

"Ah." Kevin looked around. "Uh…"

"Julian's up in the back woods. Said something about making sure the beavers
don't flood us out."

"Think he needs a hand?"

She grabbed a bottle of bright orange hand cleanser. "Look. You're trying to
get in good with us, I get that. Hell, maybe you're a great guy to have for a
friend, I don't know, but your relationship with us is pure business and I'd
prefer to keep it that way."

"I'm just trying to establish a rapport." Kevin defended himself.

"And there's your problem." she said. "Don't. I ain't interested in a rapport.
I'm interested in getting the fuck offa this planet and you're the man with
the spaceship. So let's focus on _that_ and maybe I might decide to like you."

Kevin shook his head and sat on the hood of his car. "You have a completely
different attitude to most folks I've met." he observed.

She rinsed her hands off into yet another bucket, and the orange slime she'd
spread all over them took most of the filth and grease with it. She started
slathering on a second dose. "Yeah? Y'know, I saw that footage of you telling
Kirk and Vedreg about religion. I thought you were a straight talker. What
happened to _that_ guy?"

"You an atheist?"

"That's none of your damn business, and don't change the subject."

Kevin shrugged. "That was fifteen years ago." he pointed out. "That's a long
time. People change. I learned stuff about how the world works."

"And how _does_ the world work according to Kevin Jenkins?" she asked, rinsing
her hands off again. They were almost perfectly clean now, so she shook the
water off them and wiped them dry on her backside.

Kevin rolled his jaw thoughtfully. "Way I see it, if you've found somebody who
isn't trying to manipulate or use you, you've found true love." he said. "And,
uh, no disrespect, but I don't love you."

She gave him a flatly skeptical stare. "A guy like you believes in true love?"

"Nope." Kevin stood up. "Do you?"

"By your definition?" She looked thoughtfully in the direction of the woods
for a moment, and then nodded with a half-smile. "Absolutely. Look, make
yourself comfortable indoors. We've got a big TV and satellite. Hell, we've
got an old Sega if you want, whatever. I'm gonna be gone a few hours, and so's
Julian.

"Sure?"

"Don't get motor oil on the couch."

"Right." Kevin fetched a change of clothes from the trunk as she headed
indoors. The screen door did its banshee impersonation behind him as Allison
vanished into a bedroom.

Things had tidied up nicely inside even in the two days since he'd last
visited, and he took a quick tour. Kevin didn't believe in _Feng Shui_, but
rearranging the furniture had done a lot for opening the place up and making
it feel brighter, now that the big glass doors out onto the deck weren't half-
blocked by the television and the antediluvian floral-print heavy curtains had
been taken down. There were dark patches on the walls where some of the
infinite decorations had hung for decades, protecting the pigment. The
incandescent bulbs were gone, replaced with modern smart LED bulbs. Already
the place looked less… kitschy.

"Hey, look, I said we'd win this thing for you…" he called out "But I wouldn't
get too premature on the decorating if I was y'all. You haven't even signed up
yet!"

"We've not!" she called back through the door. "Just took some things down and
moved some other things."

"Beats the crap out of paperwork I guess." Kevin admitted.

"Julian needed the break. Too many fancy legal ten-dollar words, you know?"

"You get used to them, with time."

"You can get used to _anything_ with time." she commented and opened the door,
having changed into a plaid shirt and clean jeans. "But, he's happier doing
physical stuff. Me too, for that matter."

She fished down the back of the couch and producedfor him a remote control.
"Knock yourself out."

"This ain't exactly how I'd planned on spending company time." Kevin objected.

"You want us on that spaceship?" she asked.

"Yeah!"

"Then sit your ass down and watch TV and we'll talk it over with dinner."

Kevin took the remote off her and did as he was told, and Allison grabbed her
coat and bag. She glanced wistfully at the back room where the gun locker was,
muttered a reminder to herself about needing a license, and vanished with a
screech of badly-maintained screen door. Some seconds later, the truck they'd
spent all morning servicing grumbled awake and pulled out.

Kevin turned the TV on, browsed the planner for a few minutes, and settled on
watching the NCAA highlights.

This became the Pro Drone Racing highlights. Then the golf highlights. Then
the Indycar highlights. Boredom was inspiring him to idle contemplation of the
merits of suicide when movement out the back window caught his attention,
which turned out to be Etsicitty picking his way between the trees with a
rifle on his back and three dead beaver in his hand.

There was a shed next to the log pile that Etsicitty vanished into. Kevin sat
waiting for him to emerge, but the wait took long enough that he eventually
gave up and found a movie to watch in the form of Star Wars Episode VIII.

It was firmly in the late afternoon by the time Etsicitty emerged from the
shed with red hands and some gory remains, with which he vanished back into
the woods. He returned empty-handed just as the credits rolled, and entered
through the utility room, the door on which was mercifully silent. There was
the sound of running water and, at length, he padded through into the kitchen
and grabbed a water bottle from the fridge. His prosthetic foot sounded
strange on the linoleum.

"Good couch, ain't it?" he asked.

"Damn good." Kevin admitted. "I've been sat here for hours, and I'm not
gettin' antsy."

"Drink? We got Pepsi, iced tea, water or milk."

"Pepsi'd be good, thank you."

Julian closed the fridge stepped around the couch and sat down next to him,
handing him a drink can. "Star Wars?"

"Yup… Hey, uh…"

"Yeah?"

"What's with the beavers?"

Julian chuckled. "Good eatin' on them." he said. "Hell, beaver tail's a
delicacy."

"You're shitting me."

"Nuh-uh. You gotta hang it a day or two, but you cook 'em right and they taste
kinda like smoky pork. Pelt's useful, too, but it can get kinda cut up in the
spring when they fight."

"So you hunt them for food?" Kevin asked.

"Trap 'em. They need it, too. Stupid furry fuckers are rodents, and they breed
like rodents too. And round here there's nothing eating them."

"There ain't?"

"Nope. All that farmland's buffering them and keeping them safe." Julian
scratched at the back of his neck. "Right now the population's getting just
big enough to eat more than the land can give 'em, so I've either gotta cull
them right back, or they'll starve anyway. We may as well get a meal out of
it, right?"

"Bet you make a lot of friends in PETA with that attitude."

Julian produced a silent beat of humorless laughter that was over as soon as
it had started. "I love animals." he said. "But this isn't a natural
landscape, and if it's gonna remain healthy it needs a human hand on the
tiller, and a lot of the time that's going to mean trapping and shooting.
Sucks for the beaver, but you've gotta look at the big picture. Either I can
snare three beavers and kill them quick and humane, or dozens of them can
slowly starve to death because they ate everything. I know which sounds less
cruel to me."

"…I hear what you're saying," Kevin conceded "but that still… I dunno, it
seems cruel."

Julian shrugged. "Deathworld."

He took a swig of his water and set it down on the coffee table. "And believe
me, I know better than most just how much of a deathworld Earth really is.
We've tamed her, a fuck of a lot. But she's still an ornery old mare at heart
and she'll kick you down and stamp on your head if she gets the chance. Most
people don't realise that because they don't need to."

"How does she stack up to Nightmare?"

Julian shrugged. "By and large? Earth is nastier."

"Nightmare's a thirteen, though. We're 'just' a twelve."

"Yeah, but the Corti created the planetary classification system, or at least
they refined the algorithm, and I guess it inherited some of their
prejudices." Julian said. "The big-headed little fucks don't like eccentric
orbits or whatever, and they didn't really see that when you've got a
predictable deep freeze cycle with a short summer, that's going to put limits
on what kind of life forms you get."

"Sure, in the _summer…_" He patted his hatchet. "Mangrabber vines and
bombfruit and murderpigs and minizillas and don't even get me fucking started
on the Go-to-hell tree. THAT thing was a nasty surprise."

"Go-to-hell tree?"

"Spreads its seeds by spontaneous combustion right at the peak of the summer
season, and the timber can self-ignite even when it's been dead and drying out
all winter. Good thing I didn't build my hut out of the stuff, or I'd have
lost everything."

He grinned. "And if you think that sounds outlandish? We've got plants right
here on Earth that do something similar. An' there's the thing. We've GOT
exploding fruit, and carnivorous plants, and big smelly dangerous critters
here on Earth, and _here_ they're awake for **two** thirds of the year if they
go to sleep at all. _Everything_ hibernates on Nightmare."

"Come on, a Venus Flytrap couldn't even hurt a Corti." Kevin said.

"Nope, and that's what made the Corti decide Nightmare deserves a thirteen and
Mother Earth only got a twelve. But what makes her _way_ nastier is the
_diseases_." Julian nodded. "Cut yourself on Earth, and you'd better sterilize
that wound in case you get a staph infection or something. Sometimes, you can
sterilize it and get an infection anyway. You gotta boil the water, cook the
meat, keep yourself wrapped up warm…"

He took another sip of water, and a thought seemed to occur to him as he was
swallowing. "Hell, do you know how much disease avoidance and control is built
into EVERYONE's daily lives? Like, we don't even notice it! Fuck, there's a
whole aisle in the supermarkets for soap, and another one for scrubbing the
bacteria out of your mouth that'd eat your teeth otherwise. Then there's the
one for household cleaning products, bleach, mold killer, the fact that every
single food item in that store has an expiry date, the soap and sinks for
people to wash their hands in the bathroom, the tissues for covering your
mouth and blowing your nose, bug spray and zappers because insects are a
disease vector… Hell, there's a whole industry and market sector in scented
soaps because we have to scrub ourselves everyday or else stink of bacterial
action in our skin, so we may as well put some perfume in there so we can wind
up smelling pretty afterwards…"

"Don't forget the pharmacy." Kevin pointed out.

"You're right. And all those antibiotics are on a time limit anyway."

"Meanwhile, you just spent the morning trapping a knee-high critter that'll
chew through a tree and dam a whole river."

"Right."

Julian scratched at his hair a bit. "Most folks live in cities now." he
pointed out. He didn't have any particular style, Kevin noticed - it was just
dark, shaggy, and ignored, presumably right up until it got in the way. He
wondered if Julian was in the habit of just taking his knife to it every so
often rather than finding the services of a barber. "They're not in touch with
what Earth is really like, or what _humans_ are really like as a species:
We're fuckin' predators. There's nothing on this whole planet we can't, won't
and haven't killed and eaten at some point."

"Some folks'd argue we don't have to."

Julian shrugged. "I've got no beef with vegetarians or vegans." he said,
amicably. "Their diet's none of my business. But even if we stopped farming
livestock _tomorrow_, we'd still have to cull the beavers. May as well do it
humanely and eat 'em afterwards."

Kevin chuckled. "You're a talkative guy when you open up."

Julian laughed with him. "I nearly went full Tom Hanks on Nightmare. Didn't
paint a face on a volleyball, but I sure as hell talked to myself a lot."

"The nice thing about talking to yourself is nobody interrupts you."

Julian chuckled some more. "Heh. Yeah, you're all right." He declared.

"Glad _one_ of the three of you thinks so."

"Well, provoking Xiu into punching you in the face didn't exactly endear you
to us…" Julian stretched.

"I really didn't mean to."

"I get that. Hell, first thing she ever did to me was brandish a knife at me."
He grinned at Kevin's concerned frown. "My fault for sneaking up on her."

"So she brandished a knife at you for sneaking up on her, broke _my_ nose for
saying the wrong things… Shit, what does she do to a man who actually hurts
her?"

"Breaks his ribs, knocks him out and then throws him out an airlock." Julian
replied promptly. Seeing Kevin's expression he raised a reassuring hand.
"-into a river. She's not a murderer, he lived. And in fairness to her, it was
Kirk who cut the bastard's arm off."

"Kirk wh-? _My_ Kirk?"

"He's _his_ Kirk, but yeah. Remember that prosthetic of his? There's a fusion
blade hidden in there. And, uh, Zane had it fuckin' coming. It's a long
story."

"Damn… Kirk went up against a human and won."

"Dude, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't want to go up against Kirk myself. Sure,
he's an ET, but there's a sharp-ass brain in there that thinks like twenty
steps ahead of - oh, they're back!"

"They?" Kevin asked, as Julian kicked his legs out and stood up eagerly. There
was a snapping noise and he cursed, sitting back down and examining his
prosthetic foot. "Y'okay?"

"Fucking first metatarsal's gone again." Julian made a resigned noise through
his nose and started unhooking and peeling back layers of synthetic myomere.
If the composite "bones" of his foot hadn't been carbon black wrapped in
obviously artificial white "muscles" and "tendons" then the view of his foot
flayed open would have been an obscene one. He dug around inside it with one
of his smaller knives to scrape out the dried adhesive from a previous repair,
and dug a small tube of superglue out of this pocket.

"Simple fix." Kevin noted.

"I've had a lot of practice." Julian grumbled.

"Can't you get a better one?"

"Not one that feels and behaves just like a real foot and weighs the same…
there we go." Julian sat back and rested his ankle on the opposite knee.

The door squeaked loudly, and Xiu Chang stepped through it, with a large bag
over her shoulder and Allison behind her wearing a mischievous grin.

"…Ah." Kevin cleared his throat and stood up. "Miss Chang."

"…Mister Jenkins." She put the bag down, warily. "How's the nose?"

"Healing."

"Good. That's… good."

Kevin became acutely aware that Allison and Julian were sharing an
increasingly amused expression as he and Xiu both stood there in awkward
silence.

He manned up.

"Look, for what it's worth-"

She spoke at the exact same time. "I feel like maybe I-"

"You fir- I mean-"

"No, after- um, if you're-?"

"Well if-"

"Um…"

Allison shook her head and rubbed her eyebrows. There was a smile pushing at
her cheekbones. "Mister Jenkins first." she instructed.

Kevin sighed. "…I went about this whole thing wrong." he said. "I shoulda just
been professional with you instead of tryin' to sympathize and diggin' up
painful stuff. I'm sorry."

Xiu nodded. "And I should have kept my cool and not punched you." she replied.
"I'm sorry too."

"Apologies accepted?" Allison asked. Behind Kevin, Julian started reattaching
the synthetic muscles of his foot to their frame. Both Kevin and Xiu nodded,
and shook hands. "Friends?"

"…Not yet." Kevin decided. "I came here to do business, and you're right: We
should keep it that way."

"I think us abductees and friends of Kirk should stick together." Julian
suggested.

"Sure. But… best for everybody right now if I just be the dude in the suit."
Kevin nodded.

"Yup." Allison agreed. She gestured to the table. "We brought pizza. Sit down
and…"

She smiled. "Let's talk business."

**Date Point 10y4m1w1d AV**  
**Starship** **_'Negotiable Curiosity',_** **Planet Perfection, The Cradle Worlds**

**_Bedu_**

"At last! Civilization! Food!"

Mwrmwrwk made an irritated cooing sound. "Hzzkvk, if you could please tear
yourself away from the window for a moment and go run a diagnostic on engine
three? It would be a shame to have come all this way only to explode on final
approach thanks to an uncontrolled fluctuation."

Bedu frowned and checked his console as their obese Vzk'tk technician croaked
in alarm and galloped astern.

"That," he accused her "was a lie."

"What was?" Mwrmwrwk asked. She gave no indication of aborting their approach.

"There is no fluctuation." Bedu observed.

"I never said that there was." She replied, not turning in her seat. "But it
_would_ be a shame."

Bedu mentally chastised himself. Like Hzzkvk, he had become over-excited at
the prospect of finally getting out of the ship for the first time in far too
long. Unlike Hzzkvk, he was not ignorant of the subtle game that he and
Mwrmwrwk played at Hzzkvk's expense, using carefully ambiguous phrasing to
slip veiled insults and farcically unnecessary errands past him via his near-
terminal case of stupidity.

To have one such joke slip past his _own_ critical faculties was vexsome.
Mwrmwrwk was troublingly intelligent, and that was never a fact calculated to
leave a Corti shipmaster feeling well at-ease.

She was, however, an exceptional pilot, and thoroughly worth the irritation.
Hzzkvk was… _less_ worth the irritation, though he performed his tasks with a
commendable diligence.

"How soon until we land?" he asked.

"Half a _Ri'_ ago."

"Say again?"

"We have been on solid concrete for half a _Ri'_. Not a bad landing if I say
so myself."

"I must agree." Bedu forced himself to concede. "I hardly felt it."

Mwrmwrwk purred some quiet Kwmbwrw laughter, which he took as his cue to
stand, wriggle slightly to settle his travel-stiffened joints, and pad around
to the top of the ship's exit ramp, which was directly behind the flight deck.

Perfection had been named by Corti, and by Corti standards it absolutely was
perfect. The finest Locayl architects had been tasked with planning the
system's capital city according to scrupulous and elegant mathematical
principles laid out by the Directorate, and its balmy class three climate and
lucrative co-ordinates as a cross-roads for the four largest, wealthiest and
most influential members of the Dominion Council - the Directorate, the
Domain, the Guvnurag Confederacy and the Kwmbwrw Grand Houses - had made it
prosperous beyond compare.

Their landing site, alas, was not among the gleaming spires and delicate
ultratensile steel edifices of the upper city, but was one of dozens that
dotted the sides of the great megastructure of the mid-level city. Ground
level was still a good two hundred meters below them and some of the very
highest penthouses were as much as two kilometers above.

He took a moment to admire the sheer architectural grandeur of it, then sent a
message to the address he'd been given by their employer. The message was a
terse one, explaining only while that the primary objective was not met, there
was mitigating data to explain why.

There was a thump as Mwrmwrwk came down the ramp, then reared onto her
hindfeet and, reaching up to hold on to the _Negotiable Curiosity's_ nose for
balance, stretched out to reach her full and impressive height.

Kwmbwrw were deceptively large. When they were on all fours (which was most of
the time) they were only as high at the shoulder as a tall Gaoian, and that
meant that sometimes their real size could be overlooked. They were long-
limbed, covered in curly chocolate fur with a long tail that was usually held
coiled between their legs and almost nothing in the way of a neck.

Mwrmwrwk was, apparently, rather plain and masculine by her species'
standards, though Bedu would have been hard-pressed to know his pilot from a
stunning exemplar of Kwmbwrw femininity. She had a single large, brown eye
riding high above a wide and flat mouth, with two more eyes further round the
sides of her head for peripheral vision. This arrangement provided her with
two zones of narrow binocular vision and as a result, when working on
something that required her fine attention she had to turn her head away from
it and squint.

As she reared up, Mwrmwrwk's tail unfolded to its full length, held rigid
behind her for counterbalance. Standing upright like that, she was taller than
even a Qinis or Rrrtktktkp'ch, but that height was all limbs. Next to their
extraordinary length, her body was almost comically short and keg-shaped.

She took a huge breath and produced a different kind of purring noise,
signifying delight and relief. "Fresh air…"

"Don't you have post-flight checks to run?" Bedu chided her.

"Bedu, your conviction that you are the only competent being in the galaxy is
showing again." she retorted, dropping back down onto the three strong and
stubby fingers that bore her weight on her forefeet and tucking the each
hand's two delicate opposable digits safely out of the way. "I did them
already."

"So quickly?"

"The ship _can_ run multiple diagnostics at once, you know. Now if you'll
excuse me, I believe I'm due some shore leave. I assume I've been _paid_…?"

"What kind of a negligent employer do you take me for?" Bedu asked,
instructing his implants to transfer the funds.

"Bedu, nobody could ever accuse you of accidental negligence." Mwrmwrwk shook
herself in an entirely too smug way and headed for the elevator. "Oh, thank
Hzzkvk for me, would you? He can stop checking the engine for fluctuations
now."

Bedu permitted himself a moment of amusement, then settled back into the more
orthodox Corti frame of mind of irritation. "Hzzkvk!" he called. "We are down
safely. You can relax now."

"But I have not found the fluctuation, Bedu!" the technician objected.

"It can wait." Bedu promised. Hzzkvk's memory was shoddy anyway from all the
Cqcq he smoked. In a few hours, he'd have completely forgotten the imaginary
emergency.

He wired the Vzk'tk his payment. Unlike Mwrmwrwk, it was no fun to play games
with him. "Come along."

"Where are we going, Bedu?" Hzzkvk asked him. Behind them, the ship sensed the
departure of its master and locked itself up.

"We are going," Bedu said "To see a Contact."

**Date Point 10y4m1w1d AV**  
**North Clearwater County, Minnesota, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

"So. The deal on the table as it stands is this: The Byron Group is offering
the three of you employment as crew aboard our next extrasolar exploration
vessel. You'd be looking at a two year contract - six months of training and
then eighteen months of mission time, with a possibility of renewal or
transfer to a different post inside the group after the ship's mission is
complete. Naturally, this all comes with sponsoring any work visas,
citizenship applications, whatever. In addition to payment and employee
benefits, the Group is offering to pay all expenses and provide legal
expertise to help you through the dispute over this house and land, and, if
that dispute is resolved in your favor, to install a caretaker who will tend
to the property in your absence."

Kevin pushed the two copies he'd prepared of the agreement across the table,
along with his own copy for Xiu. He'd memorized it in any case.

"What happens if you don't win?" Julian asked.

"Whatever happens, you won't be paying a cent. If we can, we'll see what we
can do about bringing all the people who wind up sharing the property around
the table to sell it back to you. Though, it'll be up to you to negotiate a
price and sort out your finances. If you look at the salaries you'll be
receiving, however…" all three of them flipped through and found it. Xiu's jaw
dropped, Allison arched an eyebrow, and both of Julian's eyebrows migrated
north and hid under his fringe. "I think you'll agree you shouldn't have
trouble there."

"This is… very generous." Allison mused. "What's the catch?"

"There are a couple." Kevin admitted. "First catch is, it's dangerous work.
Half the crews we sent out never came back. Now, the three of you have already
_been_ out there and come back. You know how it works out there, you've got
the skills and experience, and the ships we're making now are are way better
than the first generation." He paused and shrugged slightly. "But there ain't
no such thing as safe."

The three of them exchanged a medley of expressions. Allison pursed her lips
thoughtfully, Xiu looked tense and pale, and Julian just nodded, as if that
was self-evident.

"Second catch is we'd like to examine Julian's foot and see if we can't put it
to good use for folks down here on Earth. Even if it does break now an' then,
it's a long way ahead of where we're at right now."

Julian nodded. "Doesn't sound like much of a catch to me." he said.

"Third catch is that you'd all be under nondisclosure agreements, and would
have access to some… sensitive information. I can't go into detail right now,
but you would absolutely need to keep secrets. For the rest of your lives,
most likely."

"Fourth catch is no implants." Allison guessed, correctly. Kevin frowned at
her.

"Well… yeah." he said, adding an unspoken question just with his tone of
voice.

She sat back and folded her arms. "Let's just say Julian and I know that not
having implants _really_ isn't a catch."

Inwardly, Kevin made a note to pass that observation along to Darcy first
chance he got. "Miss Chang?" he asked.

She looked up from reading through the agreement, as if surprised to be spoken
to. "Oh. Um… well, having things in my _brain_ never seemed like a great idea
anyway so… sure. No problem." she ventured.

"Okay. We can go into the details later." Kevin declared. "That's it for
catches. On to the perks."

"First perk? Training. Honing your existing skills and givin' you a solid
grounding in any other skills that the mission might need. Right now we're
envisionin' it'd just be the three of you aboard this thing, though that might
change. _Creature of Habit_ was eight people, _Reclamation_ was just four.
Among other things, correct me if I'm wrong but none of you know how to
actually fly a spaceship, do you?"

They all shook their heads.

"Well, one of you's gonna learn. I'd suggest Miss Chang."

"Hey, I've not agreed to this…" Xiu objected, holding up both hands in a
warding gesture.

"_If_ you agree to it." Kevin corrected himself. "Sorry. But you get the idea.
Second perk is full medical and dental, plus a bereavement fund for your loved
ones or charity of choice. Third perk? You get to name any and all stars,
planets, moons, continents, oceans, species and so on that you discover. If
it's not already in the database, you get to name it. Though we'd, uh, take it
as a kindness if you didn't name them _directly_ after yourselves…"

"Like… what, the continent of Allisonia?" Julian asked. "Planet Chang?
Etsicitty Island?"

"That kinda thing, yeah." Kevin agreed. "Word got back to us a while back
about a mining colony run by a human who called the place _'Carltopia'_. Guess
what his name was?"

"That's just sad." Xiu opined. "Even though, um, Planet Chang has a nice ring
to it…"

"Way I hear it every other name ever given to the place was along the same
lines." Kevin shrugged. "Like I said, you get to name 'em. All we ask is if
you _do_ decide to immortalize your names, you do it subtle-like."

"And what exactly would our duties and responsibilities be?" Allison asked.

"Explore strange worlds, seek out new life and civilizations, boldly go where
no-one has gone before?" Kevin suggested.

"Be serious." she chided.

"I am." Kevin told her. "You'll be an _exploration_ vessel. Now, admittedly
your mission is a private one, surveyin' for resources and opportunities that
the Byron group can one day turn a profit on, so there's none of that space
hippy _'bettering ourselves'_ bullshit here but… yeah, that's the shape of it.
We're most interested in useful biological samples from other deathworlds,
especially antibiotics, but… anythin', really. Spices, oil, useful cultivars
we could experiment with on Cimbrean…"

"Precious metals?" Julian suggested.

"Nah, the Hephaestus LLC have the metals market to themselves for now." Kevin
said. "Asteroid mining's just _way_ better than diggin' shit up on a planet,
and the Sol belt is gonna last 'em _forever_. Still, the survey data can't
hurt. Might be one day they get split up by competition laws and we'll be able
to sell them charts for other systems, who knows? Be nice if we could set up a
diamond mine on a nice Class Ten somewhere, though. Kill off the slave trade…
hmm…"

"That's a big dream." Xiu said. "The Gaoians have only got two colonies, and
they've had warp drive for nearly a hundred years."

"No disrespect to your friends miss, but it could be we've got motivation and
drive that they lack." Kevin suggested.

"Hah!" She beamed. "You've obviously never met a Gaoian."

Kevin bowed his head and spread his hands. "I defer to your superior knowledge
on that subject." he said. "So. I mean, there's a lot more to discuss, but
that should give you a good idea of what kind of a fine mess you'd be gettin'
into. You in?"

Julian and Allison both opened their mouths to reply, but Xiu got there first.
"Not yet." she said. "There's… things we need to talk over first. Us three."
she circled a finger to indicate Allison, Julian and herself.

"…Yeah. Don't just put us on the spot like that." Allison agreed. Julian
nodded with her.

"I've already spent about four days longer on this than I'd planned for."
Kevin complained. "This trip's gettin' expensive, and my boss is antsy for an
answer, _whatever_ that answer is. I appreciate this is a big decision, but
every day it's not made is a day that a billion dollars of infrastructure
ain't doin' shit 'cause it's waitin' for you."

"You'll have your answer tomorrow." Xiu asserted.

Kevin knew better than to argue with her by now. Exhaling, he stood up and
gathered his things. "Tomorrow, then. _Please._"

Xiu stood up and offered her hand, which he shook. "I promise." She said.

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

There were starlings dancing in front of the sunset. They boiled and surged,
gossiping among themselves as they played away the time until the light died
and they could, as one, vanish into the branches and rest.

For now, they shied away from Jenkins' car and the cone of dust it left behind
as it vanished down the dirt path, and Julian listened until even the distant
whisper of its motor and wheels were inaudible and all there was to hear was
crows scheming in the woods, a mourning dove, and crickets settling in for the
evening.

It was a peaceful moment, that he punctuated with a deep cleansing breath
before turning toward the woodpile. The wood wasn't quite ready yet, but it
would burn if he built the fire properly. Building a fire with green wood was
a skill that had kept him from freezing to death on Nightmare, especially
after his first run-in with Go-to-hell tree firewood.

The fire was about ready to light when he heard the screen door squeal - for
the umpteenth time he reminded himself to oil that spring - and Allison smiled
at him as she padded barefoot down the concrete steps in short denim and one
of his plaid shirts.

They greeted each other with a kiss. "How're we doing?" Julian asked.

"Pretty good." Allison smiled, and sat down on the log next to the firepit.
"Though he's right, I'd rather have said yes or no today, you know?"

"Mm." Julian agreed. He fished his firestriker out of a pocket and stooped. "I
guess whatever Xiu wants to talk about, it must be kinda important."

Long years of practice meant that he had the tinder going first time, and he
carefully caged it in thin kindling, then thick kindling, and finally a tent
of split firewood. One well-aimed breath into the glowing heart later, and he
had a lit fire.

Allison smiled at him. "You're good at that."

"I have my uses." He stood up. "What's she up to now?"

"I pointed her to the spare room, but if she's got any sense she's using up
all the hot water right now." Allison chuckled. "'Cause if she doesn't, I
will. This place has a GOOD showerhead."

"Please, you think I'd settle for a bad one? I know the value of a good
shower." Julian beamed.

Allison laughed again, and gestured to the fire. "How long before we can cook
on it?"

"When the first logs are mostly ash." Julian said. "About twenty minutes. You
don't rush a good fire."

"You learned that from your Grampa?"

"And a whole lot more."

"He teach you how to get a lady a beer?"

Julian chuckled. "Yes ma'am."

She wrinkled her nose at him again. "Good boy."

Grinning to himself, Julian hit the fridge in the garage. Grampa had been
partial to Leinenkugel's, and there were still a dozen bottles in the garage
fridge, about the only things that hadn't spoiled in the three years it had
been unpowered. He grabbed two, used the bottle opener magnet to de-cap them,
ducked under the canoe hanging from the ceiling, and returned to Allison, who
had drawn her knees and arms towards her core and was fidgeting.

He handed over one of the beers and sat next to her. "You cold?"

"Kinda."

"That, I can fix." He scooted closer and slipped his left arm around her
waist. She made a happy noise and snuggled into his side. "Better?"

"Better."

"Good…. good."

She sipped her beer and turned to look up at him. "Are you okay?"

"Just… hey, uhm… Al, I've got kind of a confession. Something I need you to
hear me out on and… well."

"Hey." she kissed him. "You're telling me. That already means a lot. So…
what's up?"

"It's about, um, Xiu. And, not what happened today. Something else."

There was no way he imagined the way Allison went a little stiff under his
arm. "Wwwhat about her?" she managed, completely failing at false nonchalance.

"She's, uh… I'm pretty sure she's got a crush on me." Julian said. "Like, a
BIG crush."

"Oh. Yeah. Yeah, she does." Allison agreed, relaxing again. "And… oh, you feel
the same way, don't you?"

"Uh… Yeah." Julian swallowed. "Yeah, I do. Sorry. I figured I'd better get
that out there so-"

Allison kissed him, gently. "I ain't mad." she promised. "Um… Since we're
being real, I kinda… I kinda have a crush on her too."

Julian's brain drew a blank on that one, and his face followed suit - he
simply hadn't considered that possibility.

"Y-" he began. He tried again. "Wh-? But y-?"

Allison giggled and kissed him again. "See? It's okay. You did good, you were
honest with me, I was honest with you. No fight."

"Okay, okay, but run that bit by me again where you have a crush on Xiu?" He
checked.

"…Yeah! I, uh… Yeah."

"When you say you have a 'crush' on Xiu…?"

"I mean…" Allison took a giant slug of beer and set the bottle down. "I mean I
guess I'm a little bit in love with her."

**_Xiu Chang_**

Xiu's breath caught in her throat and her hand stopped an inch from the screen
door's handle.

"Isn't that what a crush means?" Allison asked. "She's gorgeous, I like her a
lot… Hell, I _flirt_ with her, and she's flirted back and, and my heart just
starts going ba-bam, ba-bam. I've got a huge crush on her. Isn't that what
_you_ meant when you said you've got a crush on her too?"

"Well… yeah. But I mean… aren't you straight?" Julian asked. Neither he nor
Allison had noticed Xiu moving around in the house.

"Hey, if _you're_ surprised, imagine how **_I_** feel!" Allison laughed, a
touch desperately, and ran a hand through her hair before shrugging. "But
there it is. I… yeah."

Very carefully, Xiu stepped back from the screen door and listened, not daring
to make a noise.

Allison seemed to gather her thoughts. "I'm kinda the jealous type. you know?
Like, I guard what's mine, and that includes… well, you. But I kinda shared
you with her, didn't I?"

"Only _'kinda'?_ You enjoyed it." Julian observed. "You had a great time!
Right?"

"Yeah! And, so did you."

"Yeah. You know how I get off on it." He agreed. "But I'm not the jealous
type."

"Right… But you're right. I enjoyed it. Hell, it was _my idea_." she picked up
her beer, swirled it thoughtfully, then drained the last of it. Julian was
barely halfway through his.

The fire snapped and threw a handful of fire dust skywards. All three of them
watched it fade.

"So you're comfortable with her in a way you're not comfortable with anyone
else." Julian summarized.

"Not quite. I'm comfortable with her the exact same way I'm comfortable with
you. I mean…" She gesticulated helplessly to try and help her think. Julian
handed her what was left of his beer, which she accepted with a smile and
swigged. "…You think I'm hot. I think you're hot. That's what got us started
on this, right? But what keeps it going for me is that we're both… You're kind
of a misfit, babe. You don't really belong here, just like me."

"You don't think we belong here?" Julian asked. He gestured around at the
idyllic darkness around them, and Allison sighed.

_"Right_ here?" she asked. "Maybe. A fire, a little place in the woods, a cold
beer… Throw in some weed and it'd be perfect. But what about the rest of
Earth? All the… the politics and the bullshit and the assholes who don't see a
_person,_ they just see a, a…"

"An asset." Julian suggested.

Allison nodded, staring into the fire. "Or an ass. Yeah. That's it. That's why
I signed on with Kirk, 'cause he was interested in _people._ S'why I really
want to take this Byron offer, 'cause I guess I get the same thing, that
they're interested in _us."_

"Kirk still used us." Julian pointed out.

"He found uses for ours skills, yeah. That's not the same thing: with him it
was still _personal,_ you know?. That big white freak just… he was using
**me**, not _using_ me. You with me?"

"…You're right."

They were silent for a moment, and then Allison looked up and raised the
bottle towards the brightest point of light in the sky. "To Kirk. Whichever
star that is, here's hoping it protects you."

"That's Venus." Julian pointed out. "And I can't toast 'cause you've got my
drink."

Allison finished it. "You got more?"

"Yes ma'am."

Xiu smiled as she watched Allison giggle and kiss him, and mouthed "Good boy"
to herself at the exact same time as Allison said it.

He wasn't gone long. They knocked their bottles together and drank.

"So… misfits." Julian said, settling in beside her again after taking a second
to check on the fire. "You really hate Earth that much?"

"I love Earth. It's _people_ I struggle with." Allison corrected him.

"Xiu and I are people."

"You're not _people,_ you're Xiu and Julian. It's… not the same thing."

Julian rubbed the back of her neck. "What's the difference?"

"You both make me feel like… you make me feel like Allison."

"You _are_ Allison." Julian observed, plainly not following her.

"I mean you make me feel like a _person_. Like…" Allison took another giant
swig of her beer. "Like you value me _as_ me, and not for what you want from
me. This whole shit with this house and the lawyers and the Byron Group, it's
just… it's just people not giving a fuck about each other, and only thinking
about what they can get. _Using_ one another."

"That's what people do." Julian agreed. "That's… pretty much the whole of
human civilization right there."

"Exactly."

"The aliens are no different."

"No. But _you_ are, and Xiu is. And that means a lot to me. It's what I love
about you."

"…Both of us?"

"I guess so…" Allison finished the last of her second-and-a-halfth beer. "I'm
still figuring that out. Whether it's… I dunno. Whether it's like a girl-
bromance, or more than that."

"What would it… If it _is_ more than that, what would that mean for us?"
Julian asked, carefully. "For you and me?"

Allison turned and kissed him.

It was a _hot_ kiss, too. A bit needy, a bit reassuring, a whole lot of two
people who were stupid for one another, expressing it. Allison's hand snaked
round the back of his head and gripped his hair, while his own hand came up to
her face, on her cheek, brushing her eyebrow. Ordinarily, watching a kiss like
that would have made Xiu feel awkward, or that she was intruding on their
privacy. Instead…

Instead she felt warm inside, watching it. Happy. It was the first thing to
bring a genuine smile to her face in weeks: it was beautiful.

She reached a decision.

She watched as they cooled down into smiles, pressing their noses and
foreheads together, whispering happy reassurances that Xiu couldn't hear. They
both flinched when the screen door squealed open and Xiu stepped down out of
the house.

"Uh… hey." Julian managed. "You found the bed okay?"

"There's only two, Julian." Xiu told him, smiling. She could _hear_ her own
heartbeat, in her chest, in her ears and in her throat, punctuating the
anticipation in her stomach. She took a breath and committed. "And, um… I love
you guys too."

Allison and Julian looked at each other. Then back at her. Then back to each
other again.

"How much…" Allison cleared her throat and started over. "How much did you
hear?"

"Probably all the important bits. You're right." Xiu said. She sat down in the
dirt between Julian's feet. "Since I got back here, you two are the only ones
who've…"

She trailed off, then shrugged and smiled weakly at Allison before picking up
a stick and poking at the fire. "I thought I'm straight too. So, I'm just as
weirded out there as you are. But…. straight or not, it doesn't really matter,
because I'm not ready." she told them. "For anybody."

"You're not?"

"I'm… no. I mean, _God,_ I could watch you two all day, but the thought of
actually _doing_ anything just freaks me out. Maybe one day, I… but, no. Not
soon, anyway."

She sighed, then threw the stick in the fire. "I don't want you to hurt each
other for me. Okay? Please don't ever do that. I want you both to be happy.
That's all I want from you."

Allison scooted off the log to sit next to her, and hugged her hard. Xiu
twisted around and buried herself into the hug, glad to be there. She felt
Allison kiss and stroke her hair and hold her tight, and Julian….

Julian thumped down off the log, put his arms around them both, and held them.
"Whatever we figure out, we figure out together." he promised. "All of us."

Xiu shut her eyes and embraced the sense of peace they were giving her. She
was, she realised, finally, truly, and at long last… _Home._

**++End Chapter++**

