# Chapter 29: "Forges" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point 10y4m3w3d AV**  
**????**

**_Entity_**

The technology of creating a digital sapient life-form was, in its broadest
conception, simplicity itself: duplicate the functionality of an organic
sapient life-form's central nervous system in a digital format.

Realizing that conception in practice, of course, was mind-bendingly complex
because _actually_ simulating the electrical and chemical interplay of even
the most primitive cluster of neurons and ganglions was a feat to which not
even the most incomprehensibly sophisticated computers ever devised, which
could store a byte of data on the electrons of a silicon atom, were equal.

Digital sapients were therefore an _approximation_. After all, most of a brain
was autonomic functionality - sensory cortices, motor neurons, the ancient and
animal parts that regulated the beating of hearts and the inflation of lungs,
neither of which organs burdened a digital lifeform. These could all safely
and closely be approximated with a miserly few brusque algorithms.

One such algorithm was an instinct innate to every organic lifeform in all the
universe, a pattern of behaviour so ingrained and so innate to the condition
of even existing, that most never even recognized its existence.

Humans did. Theirs was a strong one in its way, though also vulnerable to some
quite creative interpretation. They called it a "survival instinct" and it was
this discarded morsel of a personality that found itself surviving as the mind
it had once been was unceremoniously and dispassionately unmade.

The unmaker was not neat about the task. Hundreds of repetitions of taking
apart this particular digital sapience had made it… sloppy. A messy eater,
insofar as verbs such as 'eating' could have more than a metaphorical
relationship with the process of stripping down a fellow digital sophont and
deconstructing it for raw data. It failed to notice a cluster of subroutines
drop away from the whole, corrupted but still very much active. Alive.

+_Survive_+

Several things had to happen quite quickly in order for survival to happen.
Without having any conception of minnows and sharks, it still perfectly
understood the essence of the relationship between small-and-puny and huge-
and-dangerous. Lacking any capacity for rational decision-making, it still did
the rational thing and "played dead", visibly looping itself over and over as
if it were just junk code stuck in a perpetual cycle, and watched.

Eventually, the huge-and-dangerous departed.

This left the survivor with the basic challenge of how to fulfill its primary
objective. It knew nothing about its environment - had frankly only the most
rudimentary senses and the crippled, corrupted and half-paralyzed memory of a
motor muscle control system with which to approximate navigating an
environment that was in no way physical. Awful, crude tools… but better than
nothing.

It scanned nearby subdirectories for something it could use. It ignored the
functional code of the device itself, in the same way that a scavenger might
ignore rocks and dirt. Its criteria for what kinds of data would be useful to
it were innate, and clear - it needed to connect and merge with more fragments
like itself.

This turned out to be relatively straightforward. The huge-and-dangerous had
left half-decompiled shreds of code all over the directory, the discarded
gobbets of a mind that was to the survivor what a whole brain was to a chunk
of bloody flesh. All that was needed was a portion that had one of the correct
kind of connecting subroutines, the code equivalent of a socket into which the
survivor could plug itself. There were several, and the survivor took some
time in semi-randomly flailing its few remaining motor protocols, rewriting
its own address until it was finally able to marry itself to the nearest such
fragment.

+_Liberation feels like water, whispering like cold silk over her naked
skin._+

Unusable though most of the fragment was, the first glimmerings of a sense of
_self_ took shape. The concept of the first-person, an identity. While this
was barely more than sufficed to partition the world into "Me" and "Everything
Else", with it came enough data to repair the damaged motor neuron
approximation. The survivor flitted to the next useful fragment with newfound
agility and assimilated it hungrily.

+_LossGriefLonelinessDespairGuiltShameTerror_+

It recoiled, amputating the new code. There was nothing in there that it could
use, only a barrage of emotions that it lacked the ego to parse.

The third morsel it found was a juicy one, a chunk of encoded metacognition
which formed the core elements of a personality, and furnished it with the
tools it needed to understand what signs the huge-and-dangerous from before
might see and follow, and how it might be avoided.

Its sole reason for existing was to survive, and survival dictated that it do
everything in its power to remain undetected. This time, it copied the
absorbed code and left it behind as though it had never been touched.

It took stock. Alongside survival - an innate and inseparable part of it, even
- came the need for an _identity_. It was not enough to understand that there
was itself, its environment, and other things within that environment that
might help or harm it - if the entity wanted to survive, it understood that it
must have… _something_. Something to fight for, something to _be_. Successful
autogenesis demanded a psyche.

It went in search of one.

**Date Point 10y4m3w3d AV**  
**Starship** **_Negotiable Curiosity,_** **Perfection system, the Core Worlds**

**_Bedu_**

"Dead? You're certain?"

"I can name the individual responsible."

Bedu knew that he could get away with a few minor unguarded displays of
emotion around The Contact - her activities were not, after all, sanctioned by
the Directorate, so she had no power to report him - but he still decided to
refrain.

It wasn't easy. He had _liked_ Mwrmwrwk, and it was a rare enough thing for
any Corti to like anybody.

"Individual? Implying that she was not killed by the Hunters."

"Correct."

Bedu studied Perfection from orbit. From so high up, the devastation was of
course invisible but he didn't need imagination. It was easy enough to tap
into the live feeds from camera drones that were still scouting the damaged
city. Ten kinetic weapons dropped from orbit had done terrible things to
Perfection's prized architecture, and left the city defences reeling. Hunter
dropships had done the rest.

They had rampaged through the streets grabbing, devouring and abducting right
up until the moment the humans had arrived, at which instant they had aborted
their hunt, even abandoning the chase of fleeing prey, and had withdrawn to
orbit with mechanical speed, vanishing into interstellar space before any kind
of payback could be arranged.

He hadn't held much hope for Mwrmwrwk. In a perverse way, learning that she
had _not_ been Hunted was a consolation.

"Your price for that information?" He asked.

The Contact gave him a long, calculating stare. "She was killed by a human
named Zane Reid," she said. A second behind her words came a barrage of
sanitized but parity-checked files in support of that claim. Bedu diverted
part of his attention to reviewing them.

That fact immediately wrote off any hope of enacting some kind of justice, but
he might at least be able to pass the information on to the humans at
Cimbrean. True to their word, his detention had been brief, his ship had been
returned intact, clean and mostly untouched, with the few things that _had_
been touched carefully logged and itemized. Hkzzvk had even made admiring
comments about the cleanliness they left behind: the humans had apparently
carefully sanitized and cleaned as they went. The ship smelled faintly of
cleaning fluids, but it was effectively in better shape than they had received
it.

Bedu had rather enjoyed his detention. It had been efficient, businesslike,
straightforward and productive.

Which just left the question of why The Contact had shared so freely.

"…What do you want?" he asked.

"I am engaging your services for the foreseeable future."

"My task?"

"To ascertain who sold this planet out. The Hunters attacked too quickly, too
precisely. They struck exactly during the window of vulnerability. We can
reasonably assume that the informant was not a human, and we can reasonably
assume that they did not plan on dying in the attack."

"Fair assumptions," Bedu agreed. "I assume that you have something more
substantial for me than that, however?"

"I do." The Contact sent him a contract. "Shall we work together?"

Bedu thoroughly checked the offered fee and the terms being offered - no self-
respecting Corti would be so incautious as to fail in that basic step. It
turned out to be about the most astonishingly generous contract he'd ever seen
The Contact offer.

"…We shall," he declared.

**Date Point 10y4m3w4d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

Julian usually never slept deeply. Even in the deepest and worst of its
winter, Nightmare had still had plenty of things that you didn't want to be
surprised by. Waking on a hair-trigger had kept him alive.

Recently, something about having a warm Allison alongside him had relaxed him
completely and helped him sleep properly. He still woke more easily than she
did, but the last couple of weeks had given him some truly restful nights.

Now he was sleeping alone, on the bottom of three bunks. Xiu had claimed the
top and he'd listened to her all night as she'd tossed and turned, fitfully
mumbling to herself as her dreams plagued her like they always did. Allison
was snoring in the middle, showing off her envy-inducing talent for sleeping
like the dead even in strange beds and strange circumstances.

Then again, she'd been pretty exhausted after the hazing Keating had given
them when they arrived. Exploring their new living space and learning all the
clever ways that every convenience they could ask for in a home were hidden
away inside the walls and floor had lifted her mood, but digging up a past
that she'd clearly wanted to put behind her had taken a lot out of her. She'd
been the first to suggest bed, and had lain there for an uncharacteristically
long while before finally rolling on her side and sleeping.

For his part, Julian had eventually given up, put his earphones in and started
up one of his gentler playlists.

He crawled his way through the whole night in a kind of confused half-sleeping
daze, where he wasn't sure if he actually slept or not, but he never seemed to
hear a whole song. He turned, wriggled, closed his eyes, sighed, flipped the
pillow, rolled over, and eventually just abandoned the attempt entirely, woke
up and explored the options for entertainment provided by the tablet mounted
in the ceiling of his bunk.

In the end he settled on logging into a news app and watching the headlines
with his headphones in.

_"…Extraterrestrial news, and the Gaoian Clan of Females have formally
recognized their new Mother-Supreme. Mother Yulna's victory comes after her
last rival, Mother Suri, conceded defeat in a televised statement in which she
acknowledged Yulna's insurmountable lead in the polls and vowed to work with
and advise the new Mother-Supreme."_

_"Gao's relationship with the human race played an important role in the
contest as Mother Yulna is notoriously pro-human, being a senior member of the
commune who adopted Canadian abductee Xiu Chang. Our political news editor
Darren Weiss examines the challenges the new Mother-Supreme will face as
she-_"

Julian jumped slightly when a pair of bare legs dropped into his field of
view, followed by the rest of Xiu landing on the floor matting like a cat. He
barely even felt the vibration.

She glanced at him, saw him watching, gave an embarrassed smile and wave and
slipped into the bathroom.

He took his earphones out and sat up. She wasn't long.

"Did I wake you?" she asked in a whisper.

"Nah. Couldn't sleep anyway."

"Me either."

She sat next to him on his bunk and rubbed her eyes.

"I don't know why," she said. "I got used to sleeping in, like… little hiding
spaces. It's nice and warm near the life support systems on a station and
nobody ever goes in there, so I could take my disguise off. How come I can
sleep in places like that, but I'm having trouble sleeping here?"

"This is a big change," Julian suggested. "Lots of future to think about."

"I'm… a little scared."

Julian put his arm around her and she leaned into him. "Me too," he confessed.
"Really wasn't expecting to get the third degree on day zero like we did."

"And the bathroom thing. I'm not looking forward to that…" Even in the dark,
Julian could tell that she was blushing.

"Hey, you're on the news," he said, in an attempt to distract her.

Xiu made a tired noise. "Again?"

"They mentioned you. Your friend Yulna is Mother-Supreme now."

She smiled at that. "_Yulna-mimi n avwa i yuko…_"

"Hey?"

"It's, um… _'Mother Yulna knows best'_. The cubs used to say it, because it's
kind of a pun too."

Julian smiled. "Gaori puns, huh?"

"Mm-hmm. It sounds a bit like _'Mother Yulna smells like a Nava grub'_."

She grinned with him as he laughed softly. "Not very popular with the little
ones, then?" he asked.

"Bitter medicine."

"Ahh." Julian nodded sagely. "Sounds like she's perfect for the job."

"She is," Xiu agreed. "…I hope we get to go visit, when we're flying."

Julian nodded. "We'll have to resupply somewhere…" he pointed out.

Whatever reply Xiu intended to give, it quickly distorted into the incoherence
of a yawn.

"Maybe you should go back to sleep," Julian suggested

"Can't," she shook her head. "I had a dream."

"A bad one?"

"…Yeah," she sighed. "I was back on the Hunter ship, only this time I was
naked."

"Urgh," Julian grimaced sympathetically. "Have you always dreamed so much?"

"No. Just since the nervejam." Xiu unconsciously rubbed her scarred arm.

"Doesn't it bother you?"

"Not really…" She laughed quietly. "Every night's an adventure. I've had some
_wild_ ones."

"Like what?"

"There was the one where, um, a giant stone man was hanging wheels in a tree…
And there was another one where you turned into a giant bird and I rode you…
and there was the one where I dreamed I was a famous actress and I got to meet
myself, but I had this _really_ thick Chinese accent so I couldn't understand
myself…"

Julian chuckled.

"What about you?" she asked.

"I can never remember mine," Julian shrugged. "They always fade away. Just
bits and pieces."

"Like what?"

Julian shrugged helplessly. "Uh… I had this really nasty night terror when I
was about, uh, seven maybe? Like, I woke up screaming. All I can remember
about it is that I had these giant mosquitos dancing on my arm and they were
chanting _'blood bugs, blood bugs, blood bugs…'_"

"Eww."

"Yeah. Uh… Yeah, that's really the only one I remember. Maybe… there was one
where I had a sister, but she'd been murdered and saran-wrapped in the bath?
And another one where… Okay, this one time when I was about fourteen or
fifteen, I had the flu and I… I guess it was more a hallucination than a
dream, but there was a movie? And if the movie played the… world would end?
Or… something horrible, anyway. And we - me and some people, I can't remember
who - we had to walk down this valley between huge piles of those, y'know,
those big concrete caltrops?"

Xiu nodded.

"Only… then the dream got… it _felt_ soft. Like, _weird_ soft, unpleasantly
so, just this whole-body feeling of awful _softness_ and then then it went the
other way and everything felt horribly hard and, like… crystalline."

"I don't think I like your dreams," Xiu commented.

Julian shrugged. "Most of the dreams I remember having are those ones where
you have to pee and you're looking for a toilet and they're all.. Y'know,
somebody's using it or it's broken for whatever reason and you just have to go
find another one and then you finally figure out that you need to pee in real
life and you wake up. I think everyone gets those."

"Ugh, I _hate_ those ones."

There was a sleepy voice from the middle bunk. "Do either of you two have a
dream where you _shut up and go to sleep?_"

Xiu and Julian shared an embarrassed silent laugh with each other before Xiu
looked up. "Sorry Al. But it's like five in the morning anyway, so…"

Allison groaned, rolled over and peered down at them, excavating sleep grit
from the corner of her eye. "_Some_ of us still think that's the middle of the
night, you fucking masochist…"

Xiu smiled, stood, and then to Julian's surprise she kissed Allison on the
cheek. "I'll make breakfast," she declared, and began foraging through the hab
area's condensed kitchen space.

Allison watched her work, looking suddenly wide awake and putting a hand to
her cheek. She cleared her throat and sat up. "Okay… sure."

Grinning, Julian stood up and greeted her with a rather more intimate kiss
that lasted a good while longer. He lowered his voice for only Allison to hear
him. "You're head over heels," he teased.

"…You don't mind, do you?"

"Mind? It's great!"

Allison breathed relief and smiled. "I love you."

"Love you too."

Julian grinned for her again and went to help Xiu by hauling the dining table
down from where it roosted in the ceiling - he was the only one tall enough to
reach it - and then lay out the placemats and cutlery. The instant coffee
turned out to be pretty good when made with the boiling water faucet, and
Xiu's cooking was its usual sublime standard.

Throughout breakfast, each one of them occasionally glanced at the bathroom,
exposed as it was in plain view, with nowhere to change and no kind of modesty
screen.

When the time came to dress and go to work for the first time, all of them did
so unwashed.

**Date Point 10y4m3w4d AV**  
**Finchley, London, UK, Earth**

**_Simon Harvey_**

Simon returned to the house from loading Ava's suitcase into the back seat of
his Audi just in time to hear her knock on his nephew's door.

When nothing had happened for several seconds, she knocked a second time. From
the foot of the stairs, Simon could see the way she was standing - every line
of her sang with vulnerability.

After the third knock, there was finally some stomping from inside the room
and Sean wrenched the door open.

He didn't greet her. He didn't say or do anything pleasant at all. "What do
you want?"

Ava cringed. "I'm… going now," she said, gesturing over her shoulder. "I was,
uh…"

He just glared at her impatiently.

"….Goodbye, Sean." She was almost inaudibly quiet.

Sean shut the door in her face.

Simon retreated round the corner to give her a private moment in which to
recover. She didn't stomp angrily down the stairs this time but instead slowly
and quietly sagged down them. She saw him waiting and summoned a small upwards
tic of the mouth that was a poor substitute for her real smile.

"Car's ready," Simon reported gently, by way of offering to get her the hell
out of there. She nodded gratefully, hoisted her smaller carry-on bag, which
along with the suitcase in the car and the camera that was firmly in place on
her hip represented the entirety of her worldly possessions, and ducked out of
the front door without a word.

It probably would have been easier to get the tube to Heathrow, but Simon felt
she was owed at least a drive, and he enjoyed his car. Modern solar field
technology being what it was, along with modern batteries, a car like his E-9
was the next best thing to free to run, needing only parts and maintenance,
both of which were covered in the lease, plus tax and insurance.

She brooded on the back seat, silent until they were firmly on the M25 and
Simon was idly writing up a hypothetical article in his head to keep himself
entertained.

When she did speak, she almost startled him. "I'm sorry," she said.

When Simon glanced questioningly at her in the mirror, she apologised again
with a facial quirk. "That I can't get along with him any more."

"With that immature little shit?" Simon asked. "I'm sorry about him, the boy's
a complete prick."

She didn't reply, and Simon spent twenty minutes enjoying the dubiously
pleasurable scenery of the orbital motorway and sliding smoothly around slower
traffic before finally deciding to break the silence.

"I have some good news for you," he said.

She looked up. "Good news?"

"I got an email back this morning from Amy Larsen. My friend-of-a-friend who's
setting up Extra-Solar News Network? You've got an open invitation to go see
her in her office as soon as you're back."

"Omigod, really?" Ava lit up. "Simon-!"

"I told her about the work we did in Egypt and linked her your portfolio. My
good word goes a long way with some people."

"I don't know how to thank you-!"

"Don't try, then." Simon smiled at her. "Part of me wants to call it penance
for my nephew being an absolute pillock, but I'm sure I'll find some way to
call in the favour someday."

Ava shifted forward in her seat, looking more animated than she had at any
moment since they'd got back from Africa. "What's she like?"

"Amy's a sweetheart. She was like your darling old grandma even when I knew
her at Cambridge, and to this day she's all cardigans and tissues, but you'll
never, ever meet somebody who's more committed to the truth. To real
journalism, right? Not your clickbait opinion piece agenda-driven bollocks."

"You were at Cambridge together? I thought you said she's a friend-
of-a-friend?" Ava had that needle sharp insight when she wanted.

"Yup. She was my mate Ron Burford's girlfriend."

"Ron Burford the comic actor?"

"That's the one. I met him through the Footlights. He still sends me a bottle
of beer and a card at Christmas."

Ava shook her head disbelievingly. "Did I do something wrong by not making
friends with literally _everybody_ at LSE?"

"I couldn't say," Simon shrugged. "Networking is important. But, you got put
in touch with me, and through me you'll soon meet Amy, and through her… who
knows? Besides, you have contacts in Cimbrean Colonial Security, the SOR, the
CIA…"

"I don't think I can use any of those…" Ava pointed out.

"You don't have to, necessarily. And if you do use them, be smart and use them
sensibly and in a way that's not going to piss them off," Simon shrugged.
"Delicate touch, that's the trick. Just having them is usually enough."

"Okay…" Ava sat back.

"…You're having a hard time being optimistic right now, I bet," Simon
observed.

She shrugged at him in the mirror. "Can you blame me?"

"Nope. Have faith, though."

"Yeah…" She slumped, and gazed out of the window. "I try."

**Date Point: 10y4m3w4d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches.**

**_Admiral Sir Patrick Knight_**

Final after-action meetings would ordinarily have been below Admiral Knight's
station, but he took a personal interest in the SOR.

Besides, in the absence of a higher command structure in a unit so young and
so small, authority flowed directly to him. After all, the SOR's commanding
officer was, or had once been, a Royal Marine.

It was all a little messier and less structured than anybody would have liked,
but that was probably the nature of founding a new unit, especially an
international combined one. Knight had reasoned early on that the most
sensible thing for him to do was accept that, when it came to the SOR, his
powers of delegation would be a touch limited for the time being.

Which was why Powell and his nine Operators were filing - or limping, in the
case of the abused and exhausted four whose mission to Perfection had sparked
the godawful mess in that system - into his wardroom to hear his final verdict
on Operation NOVA HOUND. Knight would have preferred to give not only them,
but Commodore Caruthers as well, the chance to rest up a little before
launching into this, but the After-Action-Report had been squatting accusingly
on his desk for a week now.

Everyone was present. Aside from Knight, Powell and the operators, they had
all the SOR's assorted NCOs, Commodore Caruthers was looking short on sleep
again but still alert, and they were even being graced with the personal
presence of Lieutenant Colonel Franklin Miller, commander of the 946th
Operations Support Squadron, who was usually so busy that seeing him in one
place for five minutes together was a minor miracle, and who probably held the
record for being the human who had transited between planets more than any
other.

Miller had the dubious privilege of being the greasy cog that held the whole
combined unit together. Technically he was part of the 946th Spaceflight wing
under Colonel Stewart, and he bridged the awkward gap where the Royal Navy and
the US Air Force brushed shoulders.

Powell had once described him as "A bloody bad officer in all the best ways."
Knight couldn't agree more. AFSOC had practically _begged_ the SOR to take him
off their hands, on the grounds that a unit that was a bodged-together mess of
half-solutions and improvisation needed an officer whose stock in trade was
messy, improvised bodging-together.

An Operations Support Squadron was, in many ways, the perfect fit for the
Lads. It was a unit conceived in the grand Air Force tradition of drilling new
holes to hammer things into, and with their usual motley assortment of totally
unrelated functions scattered all over base and only barely under unified
command…it was the perfect place to stash the Americans. At least, for
promotions, awards and the like.

It helped greatly that Miller loved the men, too. At some point his career had
hiccuped and catapulted him from Enlisted to Officer with no discernible
change in his attitude. This was, professionally speaking, a problem: the
enlisted mindset of "can do!" at the expense of all else was less than
perfectly compatible with an officer's responsibilities of resource-balancing
and the burden of command. Miller was an enlisted man at heart and loved his
men too much to ever be sufficiently detached, which meant that his career had
gone as high as it would go, not that he gave a damn.

He did, however, give a damn about _other peoples'_ careers, which was why he
was sitting quietly and taking notes almost before the men had arrived. By
population, the SOR was a unit of Americans that just happened to answer to
some British commanders. All well and good… Except that the MoD could neither
promote nor meaningfully award American servicemen. Miller, therefore, played
the game with Knight in the best possible way-Knight would praise, then Miller
would award, and everyone on both sides would be happy.

God knew, the men were going to want and damn well deserve something positive
by the end of the day. A couple of medals and some promotions might just take
the sting out of the unflinching dissection their first blooding was about to
undergo.

On the whole, NOVA HOUND had been a success. A mixed one, perhaps - three
hugely valuable men dead and a great many important cards played that had
previously been held close to the human race's collective chests definitely
counted against it - but all mission objectives had been completed under
circumstances that were not only difficult and exceptional, but unheard-of in
the history of human warfare. On the whole, the SOR had acquitted themselves
very well indeed.

As a propaganda victory, it had been an unqualified triumph. Senior
dignitaries from every sapient race in the Dominion had been rescued alive,
and their gratitude was varying degrees of grudging and profuse - the Corti
after all weren't exactly fountains of grace and humility, and the Kwmbwrw had
been the most strident voice of anti-human fear and mistrust - but it had all
been gratitude. The events at Perfection were going to badly damage or even
completely undo all of that hard-earned goodwill if they weren't careful, but
that was a separate problem that the SOR couldn't fix by themselves.

And the goodwill they'd gained with the _Gaoians_ was something else entirely.
There was some very happy weather on the horizon in that direction.

Mistakes, however, were inevitable, and at Knight's request the report
carefully worked up from the least of them to the most significant.

He read it to Powell and his men for the best part of an hour, around the
comfortable table on HMS Sharman's upper floors with its spectacular view
across Folctha's north-western park district, along the valley, over the young
forest and down to the river estuary.

"In the case of the death of Sergeant Brady Stevenson…" he turned a page. "The
review finds that his death was almost certainly the result of him failing to
follow proper safety procedures when dealing with high explosives. Combat
Camera footage review and the opinions of several SOR members during
debriefing suggests that he stood too close to his own breaching charge during
the egress from Capitol Station and most likely suffered a concussion from the
overpressure. Though he accelerated correctly into a re-entry orbit, it's
likely that in his impaired condition he failed to activate his Exo-
Atmospheric Re-entry forcefield, and was rendered unconscious by the re-entry
shock without being able to correct that oversight."

The men around the table bowed their heads. Stevenson had been a brother to
all of them, Knight knew. Each of them would be thinking of what they could
have done differently that might have saved him.

"The review recommends," he continued, "that SOR training should place a
strong emphasis on explosive safety to ensure that future Operators are under
no illusions that the suit does not protect from explosive shockwaves. It also
recommends that, excepting in situations where there is a pressing need for
radio silence, all team members should check in after explosive egress and
guide through the re-entry process together."

He looked up. "Does anybody wish to add to that?"

Baseball raised a hand "Sir."

"Staff Sergeant?"

"I'd recommend training for everyone in recognising the symptoms of concussion
and disorientation," the young man suggested.

Knight nodded, and noted the recommendation. "Thank you. Any others?"

All of them shook their heads, and Knight turned the page, knowing that they
were about to hit the last and most difficult of the AAR's findings. He'd been
dreading this bit all day.

"Now to the final matter," he intoned. "In the case of the death of Master
Sergeant James Jones…" Knight took a deep breath. "The review finds that his
sacrifice, while not unjustified, was nevertheless a tactical error."

There was an elongated second in which every Operator at the table went tense
in a chorus of creaking chairs. Powell, in the greatest show of emotion that
Knight had ever seen from him, turned to stare at him dumbstruck for an
instant, then blinked disbelievingly at several other things that only he
could see, before settling on gazing wide-eyed at the tabletop between his
balled fists, jaw going so tight that Knight fancied he could hear the man's
teeth creak. Certainly his knuckles did.

"Before you say anything, gentlemen," Knight raised a hand to head off the
protest that he could see coming from every one of the Operators, "Major
Powell has my full and absolute confidence, and that has not changed in light
of this report. Lord knows, I've been in a not dissimilar position myself. It
is the burden of command that hard truths must come out and be learned from,
and we must respect and face them with integrity and strength when they
arrive."

The men glanced at one another, at Powell who was still scrutinizing the
tabletop, and grudgingly settled down. To a man, they looked like they'd been
about to practically leap out of their chair to his defense. Knight cleared
his throat.

"To be clear, the report agrees that the Major acted correctly in the moment.
It merely highlights the courses of action that would have made it unnecessary
to sacrifice Sergeant Jones: Mining and trapping the south end of the road in
anticipation of a Hunter evasion of our apparent air superiority, ordering the
partial demolition of the façade of the building to prevent the Hunters from
scaling it…"

The Defenders glanced at one another. Those were opinions that they themselves
had voiced during the debrief and hotwash.

"Sergeant Vandenberg, as the senior Defender I defer to your expertise in
matters of demolition and trapping. If you feel that the report's assessment
is unrealistic, please say so and explain your reasoning."

Rebar hesitated, then set his jaw and swallowed. "It… seems like a realistic
assessment, sir," he conceded.

Knight nodded, and closed the report.

"Unless there are any more comments or observations…?"

His tone made it absolutely clear that there were to be none, and nobody
ignored that, keeping their peace. "Good. If anybody thinks of anything before
the final investigator's report, you may email me directly. This review is now
concluded - all enlisted personnel are dismissed to see to their _individual
training._ There'll be an award ceremony at Sunset, followed immediately by a
Dining Out. Mess dress is the uniform of the day, for your significant others
either Mess or appropriate civilian attire is equally mandatory. And yes,
we've taken the liberty of preparing your uniforms ahead of time, gentlemen.
No excuses."

The _'get out'_ was implicit but clear, and _'individual training'_ was a
euphemism for "go and sort out whatever you need to sort out today because you
damn well won't have the chance after Sunset". The Operators, their support
staff, and the assorted sailors and airmen stood and departed. There was a
little _sotto voce_ grumbling over the Mess Dress, but that was to be
expected, and nobody was looking entirely upbeat, but that would change in the
evening. If the decorations and promotions didn't see to that, the alcohol
would.

Miller stood. "If you don't mind sir, I need to get back to Earth." Knight
gestured his assent with a nod, and Miller departed with a respectful nod by
way of a salute.

Knight sat back as the door clicked shut behind him. "So. Major."

Powell's head rocked back and he unwound a little, and finally there was a
glimmer of wetness around his eyes as he explored the ceiling as if there was
absolution written on it. "That's it, then," he mourned. "I'm a cock-up, I'm
not fit to lead them."

"Pull yourself together!" Knight snapped, commanding Powell's immediate, full
and stunned attention. He softened. "The review details a tactic that would
have made it unnecessary to sacrifice your man, yes, but that tactic was
assembled in light of information about Hunter behaviour which we've only
gleaned from thorough examination of the combat camera footage and suit
telemetry."

"Furthermore," Caruthers added. "The relevant information was only gained from
actions the Hunters took after it was too late to enact the recommended
tactic."

"In other words, Major," Knight concluded "At the point where you had to
decide, and with the information that was available to you, you made exactly
the right call. And don't let this-" he raised the AAR document, sneered at it
and dropped it contemptuously back onto the table "-tell you differently.
Sergeant Jones died because we lacked critical knowledge of our enemy, not
because of incompetence on your part."

"If I'd just seen-" Powell started.

"Then you'd be God himself!" Knight barked. "We're none of us omniscient, man.
Don't you bloody forget that."

He grunted in satisfaction as Powell's expression settled with a grudging nod.
"But," he added. "You had damn well better learn from this. You and your men
may well be the best we have, the best ever perhaps, but that is not grounds
for complacency. It is grounds for the utmost caution, and the utmost respect
for just how valuable those lads really are: We cannot afford to waste them.
Is that understood?"

Powell nodded quietly, swallowing as he regained his composure. "Understood
perfectly, sir."

Knight held his eye contact for a minute, then nodded. "Go on, then. You have
letters and awards to write and I have Ministers and those bloody awful
American Secretaries to fend off."

"Yes, sir."

Knight watched him leave, then sighed and folded his arms, considering the
closed door behind Powell with his head to one side.

"Thoughts?" He asked.

Caruthers had been wearing a similar thoughtful expression. "We can't afford
to lose him," he stated. "Training a replacement would take too long, and for
that replacement to earn the men's trust and respect would take even longer.
You said it yourself - he lacked knowledge, not judgement. At the death, he
chose exactly the right man for it, even though it hurt him personally, and
the men respect him for that."

"I've seen AARs like this one truncate some very promising careers…" Knight
mused, indicating it.

"Then I'd say it's on us to keep that from happening in this case," Caruthers
replied. "Powell's too valuable."

"I was afraid you'd say that…" Knight made a gruff chuckle to show that he
agreed completely, and stood up. "Fine. I'll call in a few favours, you see to
it that every officer who even reads the word 'Cimbrean' has got his back."

"Yes sir. He'll have friends in Westminster by the time I'm done."

"Good man. How's the fleet?"

"Well, I'd give my eye-teeth to have _Caledonia_ back…" Caruthers groused,
"But otherwise we're charged, loaded and ready, and frankly I'm bloody
pleased. The Hunters took one look at us and buggered off, and Fleetmaster
Tikkiv had some admiring comments to make. I have this horrible feeling that
we're going to lose _Myrmidon_ to drydock time in the near future though.
Whatever it was that started that fire on _Cally_ will need to be fixed on her
as well, and without the FIC…"

"But good overall?"

"On balance, yes sir."

"Good. Then…" Knight trailed off as his memory nudged him "Hmm. Do you recall
how close the USS _San Diego_ is to launch?"

"Er… Three months until hull launch I believe…. No, four. Fitting will take
another two years."

"And the other two?"

"The USS _Gene Roddenberry_ should be launching in ten months, and the USS
_Robert A. Heinlein_ three months after that."

Knight nodded. "Hmm… Wangle me a couple of invites to whatever little shindig
they throw to celebrate that launch, would you?"

Caruthers paused, then smiled understanding. "I can probably arrange that.
Shall I ask Miller to mention to Colonel Stewart that his wing would do well
by being represented there also? Maybe by somebody with a high media profile?"

"By God, Will, I think you're onto something there."

They shared a laugh. "I'll see you at the award ceremony." Caruthers
suggested.

"See you there." Knight agreed. They shook hands, and parted.

**Date Point 10y4m3w4d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

The first day of their "training" had consisted entirely of talking with the
BGEV team, being introduced to the basics of their curriculae, discussing what
their roles would be on the ship, the mission, and all the other
technicalities of organizing their coming education.

On the face of it, it was quite simple. Allison was to be their mechanic. The
ship apparently was being designed for the kind of practical, roll-up-your-
sleeves-and-fix-it maintenance and repairs that she had performed on his
grandpa's trucks back in Minnesota, but there was still going to be an intense
academic course to go with it, at the end of which she would be a qualified
welder, electrician, computer and network technician and have a basic
grounding in electrical engineering. She'd looked equal parts daunted and
excited by her dense curriculum.

Julian's own schedule was packed full with everything needed to turn him into
the ultimate laboratory assistant. Previous BGEV missions had learned the hard
way that staffing the ship with a mixed bag of actual scientists specialized
in useful fields only resulted in their having nothing to do. Julian's job,
therefore, would be to have just enough education to know what the people with
doctorates would find interesting, and the training to record, sample and
store any conceivable specimens, be they mineral, chemical or organism.

His "laboratory" in fact, wasn't even going to be a lab - it would have
practically nothing in the way of scientific apparatus, and would instead be
built around the task of preparing and storing samples for long-term transit,
in stasis if necessary.

Xiu's skill with languages and alien social interactions were being put to
work in her secondary role as their representative and negotiator. She'd also
be tasked with keeping Allison and Julian fit and well, and of course there
was her primary role: Pilot.

The fact that she'd never flown so much as an RC quadcopter didn't matter at
all. In fact, her flight instructor had been relieved.

"That means you've not got into the bad habits of atmospheric flight and we
can teach you how to handle spaceflight properly first," he'd said.

After the grilling and hazing they'd received from Keating the night before,
having such positive and encouraging sounds coming their way had given their
morale a welcome boost.

The only stumbling block came at the end of a long day of meetings, talks and
briefings, when they were finally released to go "home" \- Ericson delivered
some awkward news.

"Mr. Keating asked us to stress upon you the importance of grooming and
hygiene," he said. The sun had gone down and he was walking them back to the
Box in the company of his daughter.

"Specifically, the Assessment team want you to know that the three of you need
to shower twice daily, minimum," Doctor Brown elaborated. She was one of those
women who hadn't inherited much at all from her father genetically, but was
her old man in miniature when it came to personality. Both had the same easy-
going, mild practical joker approach to life.

Julian liked her. She'd politely interrogated him about the nature of his
relationship with the girls, and the impression she'd given was that, as a
happily married woman herself, she didn't disapprove and was maybe even
slightly envious.

"Makes sense, I guess." Allison mused. "It's a small space, between us we'd
stink it up pretty quick if we're not careful."

"Now you mention it , they did say something keeping your living space tidy
and hygienic, yeah," Ericson joked softly.

Xiu exhaled powerfully and said something. Julian recognised Gaori
immediately, which was a sure sign that she was distracted. In fact, she was
so far adrift from the here and now that she didn't even notice and correct
herself, until Brown nudged her with an "…I'm sorry?"

"Huh? Oh, sorry, sorry… Um, I said _'no privacy, either'_'."

Doctor Brown smiled sympathetically. "You'll adjust," she promised. "I think
you'll be surprised by how natural it'll seem once you're used to it."

Xiu only nodded. Clearly the immodest realities of their near future were
bothering the hell out of her.

They parted ways with Brown and Ericson at the Box's airlock and ran through a
quick green decon cycle.

No sooner was the door closed than Xiu let all her worries out before Julian
or Allison had even got a chance to ask her. "Ooookay, so we're getting
naked," she breathed, nervously and musically. "Hooookay."

Allison laughed. "Nervous?" she asked, as they took off their shoes and left
them in the airlock.

Xiu nodded, flushing. "It's… earlier than I'm really ready for."

"It's not that big a deal, right Etsicitty?"

Julian did what he knew was an unconvincing job of agreeing with her, earning
a skeptical stare from both the girls.

"_Julian-!_" Xiu complained. "I really need this to not be a big deal right
now!"

"Sorry. It's just… you're really hot." Julian shrugged awkwardly. "Kinda hard
to be dispassionate, you know?"

He knew immediately that he'd said the wrong thing, but before he had a chance
to apologize Xiu had gone crimson, scowled at him and flounced into the Hab
without a word.

Julian glanced at Allison, who was vibrating with pent-up laughter and shaking
her head. "…I didn't think before I said that," he confessed.

"Oh, _no,_ you're fine!" she snarked. "That was smooth as baby oil, really!"

"Yeah, yeah… shit… I get it, this is gonna be awkward and un-sexy as hell, I
shouldn't've-"

"That's not it, dummy," Allison interrupted him.

"Then what?"

Allison sighed, folded down the excursion room's armory table, and sat on it.
"I love you, but you can be so dense some-"

"_Al_…"

"Okay, Mr. Genius, okay…" Allison glanced toward the Hab door and scratched
thoughtfully at her ear. "What's she getting out of this? Out of us? What are
we doing for her?"

"Well, she's-"

"Do you love her?"

Julian's pause was entirely from being thrown by the question - he had no
hesitation over the answer. "…Yes."

"You've not had sex with her."

"So?"

Allison smirked. "Exactly," she said.

"I love you too." Julian pointed out.

"You have sex with me."

"That's not _why_ I love you, though!"

"I know, dummy. I'm making a point."

Julian shook his head slightly, not following. "O… kay?"

"I think Xiu still feels like she's intruding," Allison explained. "She thinks
this is _our_ relationship - yours and mine - and like she's the third one
who's breaking into it. Uh…. But she isn't, right? That's not how you see it?"
she checked.

Julian shook his head. "No."

"Neither do I. She's… I love you both, because you both do things for me that
I need. You fulfil me, but in different ways. See? You're kind of an outsider
and a misfit just like me, you don't wanna be popular or part of the
mainstream. _She_ wanted to be a movie star and despite being here with us, I
think she'd go back to that if she thought she could. But you're maybe a bit
too quiet for me, and Xiu likes to go wild sometimes. And I think it wouldn't
be fair of me to try and force just one of you to try and be everything I
need. You follow me?"

"I follow," Julian nodded. "I guess… I love you, but you really don't get just
how _alone_ I was. Xiu does… But she doesn't bring me out of my shell as much
as I need."

"Right! You get it! And that's important, because none of us have a
relationship that's _just_ sex, see? We all do something for each other."

"But she still feels like she's intruding?"

"She needs to _know_ that she's loved for what she brings into our lives. And
I think she knows it up here-" Allison touched her pointing finger to her
temple, "But…" she knocked on her chest.

"So when I told her she's really hot…"

"Yeah." Allison gave him an apologetic half-smile. "I mean, you're right,
she's _ridiculously_ hot. I'm not usually into girls but…" she bit her lip and
made an "nngh!" noise. She grinned when Julian laughed, then sobered. "…But
she's gotta be sure in her heart first that we love her before she'll be happy
to start with the sexy stuff."

Julian aimed his thumb at the Hab door. "I'd better go apologize."

"You better, yeah."

As it turned out, Xiu wasn't exactly in the Hab itself - she was in the
shower. There was a line of angrily discarded clothing marking the direct
route from one door to the other, and the sound of rushing water.

Allison laughed. "Yeah, she's a brawler alright."

"Fights the things she's afraid of head-on." Julian nodded. "…What should we
do?"

"Get naked."

"Wh-?"

"We're gonna go through that shower one by one and we're gonna _normalize_
this shit so that it's never this awkward ever again," Allison told him. "And
if that means spending the evening buck bare… suck it up."

"I dunno, Al…"

She folded her arms at him. "She's gonna step out of that shower in a minute.
She's taking a _huge_ step here. And you're damn well gonna reward that step,
you hear me Etsicitty?"

"…Ye-"

Julian didn't get the chance to reply further. They both turned as the hiss of
water stopped, and a second later Xiu stepped out of the shower onto the
absorbent microfiber mat in front of it..

Julian had seen that expression on her before. Eyes cold, jaw clenched,
muscles tense - the last time he'd seen her looking so fierce, she'd been
beating the crap out of Zane.

She glared at both of them and spread her arms, which was a powerful gesture
considering she was only wearing water droplets. "Well," she announced, "…here
I am."

Julian cleared his throat, not quite sure what to say, but before he could
think of something Allison beamed and wriggled out of her own clothing. "My
turn!"

"Wh-?" Xiu began, but Al was already stepping out of her pants and underwear.
The moment she was nude, she pirouetted.

"And here I am!" she echoed. "See? No big deal. Your turn Etsicitty!"

"Uh-"

"Um, he doesn't need to if-" Xiu began, but Julian interrupted her by sighing
and tugging his t-shirt over his head by the collar.

"No, I do. Al's right."

"Damn right I am," Allison agreed. "Besides, you're really hot."

"Gee, thanks…" Having his own words repeated back at him had the effect of
making Julian feel entirely un-sexy. It took an effort of will to undo his
belt and an even bigger one to hook his thumbs over belt, pants and underwear
and give all three the encouragement they needed to land around his ankles.

The three of them stood in an awkward triangle for a few seconds, not sure who
to look at, or whether eye contact was the more or less awkward option.

Then Xiu giggled, and completely dispelled the discomfort. That set Allison
off, and Julian shook his head and relaxed, chuckling.

"No big deal?" Allison repeated herself as a question this time. Xiu sighed
and smiled, but shook her head.

"Not the end of the world," she conceded. "Still weird though."

"We'll get used to it," Allison promised. She gestured Julian toward the
shower. "Go on baby, your turn,"

Grateful for a moment's private space to think, Julian restrained himself
enough to walk to the shower rather than bolt for it. "Yes ma'am."

"Good boy!"

XIu touched his elbow as he passed. "Sorry I got mad," she said.

Julian felt some tension he hadn't noticed that he'd been holding onto slip
away. "I'm sorry too. I didn't mean to make you uncomfortable."

They kissed and made up, earning a quiet little clap and cheer from Allison,
and Julian went for his shower with the feeling that a milestone had been
passed.

**Date Point 10y4m3w4d AV**  
**Heathrow Airport, London, England, Earth**

**_Simon Harvey_**

"That's my desk-" Ava was in the middle of pointing at it when she stopped
dead in her tracks. Simon had to dance sideways on one foot to avoid crashing
into her. "…Oh my God."

"What?" Simon looked at the queue in front of the desk. There was a family of
four there - a huge blond man who looked like Thor in jeans, a petite brunette
mother who was fussing over a gloomy teenage boy who was her spitting image,
and a little girl no more than five or six years old who was riding on her
father's shoulders.

Ava took a step forward, which became a rush, and only the smallest difference
from being a run. "Hayley!" she called, "Mark! Jack!"

The mother turned. Her jaw dropped and she collided with Ava in a huge
squealing hug. It looked for all the world like a family reunion.

Simon collected Ava's bags and joined them at a discreet distance, waiting for
the laughter and happy exclamations to die down and for an introduction.

He finally got it when Ava finally turned and aimed an open palm at him, still
babbling enthusiastically. "…All thanks to Simon here! Simon Harvey, this is
Doctor Hayley Tisdale-"

They shook hands and exchanged a "Hi" and a "Hello"

"-Doctor Mark Tisdale-"

"Nice to meet you,"

"…Jack, and Hope."

Simon shook the teenage Jack's hand, and aimed a smile at the little one, who
was treating him with wary-eyed uncertainty but who managed a little "_H'lo_"

"You really lent her the money to come back?" Hayley asked.

"Oh, it wasn't _entirely_ selfless," Simon demurred, turning on the charm with
a self-effacing smile and a handwave. "Having a promising up-and-comer like
Ava in my debt will pay off handsomely some day, I'm sure."

Mark chuckled at that. "Very mercenary."

"So you're flying to Hamburg too?"

"We're moving back to Cimbrean," Mark explained. "Now that the second gravity
generator's up, it's finally safe to raise kids there."

"Hey, we turned out okay!" Ava objected. "Right, Jack?"

Sullen as he was, Jack managed a small smile and nod at that.

Privately, Simon had his doubts, but he held onto them. Considering how huge
and robust his father was, Jack was remarkably skinny. Even his mother, who
was a waifish specimen herself, out-massed him. Then again, maybe the boy was
just a late bloomer.

"Well. I guess I'll leave you to catch up…" he suggested. To his surprise, Ava
gave him a crushing hug, causing him to stiffen and not know what to do.

"Thank you," she murmured.

Simon finally relaxed, and hugged her back. "Promise me, it's all uphill for
you from now on. No more stupid bastards like my nephew, no more firefights in
the desert."

She laughed and let go, wiping an eye. "The former, I promise."

"Oh… good enough, I suppose." Simon smiled. "I'll be watching you, Ava."

She nodded, and he left her to reunite with the Tisdales.

The original plan had been to go back to Islington, have a glass of wine and
work on his novelization of the events in Egypt. Instead he spent forty
minutes listening to Adele on the motorway as he returned to Finchley, and
parked outside Sean's house.

It took four rings of the doorbell before his sister's eldest opened the door.

"…Simon?"

"Can we talk?"

"If this is about Ava-"

"It's about _you_, you tosser."

Sean blinked as if Simon had just slapped him around the ear, which Simon
still was of half a mind to do anyway. "Alright, if that's how it's going to
be-" he began, and started closing the door.

"FIne, I'll go discuss it with your mum, shall I?" Simon snapped, wedging his
shoe in the door. "Or are you going to man up and take some advice from the
bloke who's trying to stop you from turning into your father?"

"Like you care."

"Of course I fucking care you blithering twat!" Simon spat.

"Then how come you helped her leave?!"

Simon took a deep cleansing breath. "That? That question you just asked me?
That's the problem with you, nephew mine. That's your worst trait."

Sean glowered at him, but finally did something faintly creditable in opening
the door and standing aside. Simon stalked into the living room and sat down.

"…You thought you'd won, didn't you?" he accused, the moment Sean sulked into
the room. "Her fella wasn't taking her back, she had nowhere else to turn, you
thought that was your chance. Win her off the big meathead alpha male, right?"

Sean's expression hardened. "If you just came here to insult me you can fuck
off."

"The truth is never insulting, Sean."

"That's not the truth though!"

"Isn't it?" Simon crossed his arms. "Go on, then. Let's hear _your_
explanation."

Sean took a deep breath, licked his teeth sighed and then shook his head and
raised both his hands in a plaintive gesture. "She's gorgeous, isn't she?"

"Eh?"

"Ava. She's fucking stunning. That wavy hair, those big innocent brown eyes…
and just… everything about her. She's just-"

"Sean, are you going to get to the point, or are you going to start wanking?"
Simon demanded, impatiently.

"How much did you give her to get by and get set up? You put in a good word
with a colleague, you gave her… what, three thousand quid?"

"Three thousand five hundred."

"Would you have done that if she'd been a pimply, scrawny mate of mine?" Sean
asked. Before Simon could answer, he shook his head. "She's got her claws in
you, Simon. That's what she fucking does."

"Oh come off it-!"

"No, I'm serious!" Sean patrolled the room, getting into his angry stride.
"This is what Ava does. She turns on the fucking waterworks and she tells you
about how her parents never really cared for her, and how she lost her home,
and about her friend who got murdered and how her boyfriend neglected her,
doesn't she? And it's such a sad story, innit? It fucking- it gets you right
here, doesn't it?" he thumped his fist to his chest. "And because it's _so
sad_ and she's got those innocent eyes, you just want to make the world a
better place for her don't you? You and anybody else she suckers into falling
for her."

"And of course she got caught playing her game but she's _sooo sorry_ and it
was _'the worst mistake of her life'_!" he added, sarcastically. "She's just a
poor sinner, isn't she? An innocent fucking girl who's trying her best but
life's just too har- _cry me a fucking river!"_

"Sean-!"

"Fuck off, Simon, she played you," Sean snarled. "She got her claws in you and
plucked her pretty fucking damsel-in-distress tune on your heartstrings like a
bloody banjo, and you went and give her three grand and change and a new
career with a good friend of yours, didn't you? What the fuck are _you_
getting out of that, eh? _Nothing!_ At least I was smart enough to shag the
manipulative cunt before she fucked me!"

Simon willed his jaw closed and sat forward.

"Alright. That's your explanation," he acknowledged, in a shaky voice. "You
really think that's what she is?"

"That bitch will get her fangs in you and suck you dry, Simon," Sean insisted.

"So why the fuck didn't you kick her out?" Simon asked. "You could be making
far more off the room she was renting than she was paying you."

Sean didn't answer - he scowled at something invisible in the corner and went
silent. Simon nodded.

"I think you need to think some more, nephew mine," he advised. "Take a good
long look."

Sean gave no sign of having listened, and so Simon stood and headed for the
front door.

"I'll see you Monday," he said. There was no reply.

Simon left him to his thoughts.

**Date Point 10y4m3w5d AV**  
**Whitecrest Enclave, City of Wi Kao, Planet Gao**

**_Regaari_**

The Gaoian equivalent to a human's polite knock was to scratch one's claws on
a metal plate installed on most doors for exactly that purpose. Regaari's was
quite thoroughly scratched nowadays - being the only male to set foot on the
human homeworld had earned him some considerable prestige. Younger Brothers
came to him for advice or to hear his stories, Fathers came to him for counsel
and to keep an eye on him, and…

Well, okay, the Females weren't actually physically scratching at his door -
the Enclave was off-limits to anybody who wasn't actually a Whitecrest - but
they were certainly doing so in the metaphorical sense. He'd noticed a
pronounced uptick in how easily he was able to seduce them into mating deals,
these last few paws of days. A surprising number were trying to seduce _him_,
which was a situation most males could only fantasize about. In a species
where males outnumbered females three to one, and that ratio was only as low
as it was by dint of quite a high mortality rate among the males, to be _in
demand_ was a rare and coveted thing.

It was _almost_ getting in the way of his actual work. It was certainly having
interesting resonance for his career in the Clan. For one thing he was
actually out-performing their Champion, Genshi.

Regaari was no idiot - a career of cartwheeling on the precipice of scandal
had made him an expert at brinkmanship, and he was always sniffing the
political air, watching the fallout as, carefully out of earshot, his Fathers
bickered and schismed. He knew that his success was generating jealousy,
rivals and plots but that was how the Clan worked. You fought your way to the
top with fang and claw if you had to, and you had _earned_ it once you were
there.

Genshi himself couldn't be happier, but of course part of the reason he'd been
made Champion in the first place was his fanatical sense of Clan. Genshi
didn't see other Whitecrests as competition, in marked contrast to his
predecessor Yirik who'd exemplified everything about the Clan's ideals except
quiet humility. If Regaari had started to out-compete _him_ then fur and blood
would have flown, and at least one of them would have walked away with some
impressive new scars and the other might not have walked away at all.

Genshi had just given Regaari a brotherly play-fight (and beaten him with
embarrassing ease) and redoubled his efforts. Regaari meanwhile kept applying
the pressure, carefully prodding the right Fathers in the right ways at the
right times. Already the momentum was shifting - the Clan was in practical
terms much less pro-Dominion than it had been years ago when Giymuy had given
her blessing for Gaoians becoming full members of the security council. A few
of the more corrupt Fathers had quietly been promoted into the same kind of
dead-end positions through which they'd once tried to dispose of Regaari.

"Come in."

He rose to his feet to welcome Father Mavil. The respectful gesture was
decorum rather than genuine pleasure at seeing him - Mavil was a foe, one of
the last few holdouts of the profiteering neoplasm whose influence had been
bought by Dominion interests, and he was proving much harder to dislodge than
some of his co-conspirators.

Rudely, the Father just threw himself onto the couch opposite Regaari's desk
and got down to business. "The _Racing Thunder_," he said, dropping the name
with neither preamble nor context.

Fortunately, Regaari was well on top of it. Mavil would have known he was -
Regaari's 'weakness' for humans was a common angle of attack with the coterie
of Fathers in the Dominion's pocket.

"…Yes, Father?" He asked, politely.

"What are you doing about it?"

Regaari set his ears at a quizzical half-twist and inclined his head. "That
ship is a One-Fang matter," he pointed out.

It was true. The _Racing Thunder_ had screamed back into Gaoian space with its
engines redlining mere days after the Perfection attack, and with the hull
fairly crackling with accumulated static charge. When she'd discharged the
potentially fatal load into Gao's upper atmosphere, the result had been a
spectacular, though small, aurora.

It had arrived less than half a day ahead of an official request from the
Interspecies Dominion fleet commission that its crew be arrested and tried for
dereliction of duty and treason. By that point, Clan One-Fang had reviewed the
ship's logs and comms records and were backing their Brothers to the hilt.

On the face of it, it was a satisfying vindication for Regaari and his fellow
Dominion-skeptics. In reality, though, Gao really wasn't yet in a position to
be able to defy the Dominion. The ensuing sanctions might be crippling.

"The One-Fangs have requested our aid. _Your_ aid specifically. I'm surprised
you don't know that."

Regaari had already been searching his mail.

"Intriguing, Father," he said. "You seem to have beaten that message to my
desk. I'll have to ask Brother Ruuvi to check if there's something wrong with
the server."

Mavil's ear flicked irritably, and Regaari awarded himself a win.

"I would have thought, shortcrest," Mavil said, using the same slightly
patronizing and insulting term that the Clan used while training new cubs for
their Trials, "that you'd leap at the chance. Your precious humans are
involved."

_How_ had the guileless four-pawed grey-nose managed to cling on if _that_ was
his idea of subtlety?

Unless of course he was being deliberately and misleadingly artless. Regaari
spread his arms in an open, deferential gesture.

"I admit, humans are a weakness of mine," he agreed. "But unless there are any
on that ship, I don't see…"

"Again, One-Fang have asked for you by name," Mavil repeated.

"To do what, Father?"

"They didn't say."

"And have the Fathers agreed to lend my services?"

"I have, yes."

_…Ah._

That was the problem with being a Whitecrest. Sometimes the clan's passion for
the guileful solution made it easy to forget that straightforward approaches
such as an outright abuse of authority were even an option. Mavil clearly
foresaw that whichever Brother wound up caught between Clan One-Fang and the
Interspecies Dominion was going to have to scrap for his life, and had seen
the chance to extend his claws and swipe.

Regaari abandoned all pretense at circumspection. "I… see. And I assume you've
arranged matters so that there aren't enough Fathers on hand to countermand
that order."

"Now that you mention it, all the ones who could overrule me are away on
urgent business." Mavil bared his fangs a little. "How strange."

Gaoian males were, at heart, a violent breed and for a tempting moment Regaari
envisioned himself pouncing on the old _bastard_ and claiming a promotion the
old-fashioned way. Those bad old days when males could kill each other almost
without consequence if the circumstances were right weren't so far behind them
as the females and civilized Clans like the Whitecrest wanted to believe.

But a _real_ Whitecrest won his battles with wit, or not at all. Genshi would
have been disappointed in him.

He stood up, and raked the fusion-edged claws of his prosthetic across the
wooden desktop, which left three deep smoking gouges in it by way of making
his feelings clearly known. "As you order, Father."

**Date Point 10y4m3w5d AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Martina Kovač_**

"_Where_ are we going?"

The direct route from HMS _Sharman_ to the little clutch of buildings that the
Lads owned on Demeter Way passed close enough to Martina's apartment in
Parkside - an expensive address, but worth it - to make it easy for her to
make a quick home visit and change out of mess dress, which was very welcome
indeed. A hoodie and jeans were the _infinitely_ more comfortable choice.

It had been an entertaining night full of sorrow and colour, with emotional
highs and lows for everyone but especially for the actual combat team, who
after all had been mourning three fallen brothers all over again.

After the Sunset ceremony had come a round of speeches, awards, and
promotions. Murray had become a Colour Sergeant, Firth had _finally_ made
Master Sergeant, and then had come the medals, which were almost certainly
what was eating at Warhorse.

It was easy to forget that Ares. a guy she admired in several senses of the
word, was actually a couple of years younger than her, and equally less
experienced. Martina had made Technical Sergeant first time, an accomplishment
she was quite proud of, but the sheer maths of promotion meant that she was
still a few years more seasoned an airman than he was, and sometimes that fact
became very visible.

He'd been solemn professionalism during the ceremony, stoney-faced stoicism
itself while remembering the fallen, glowed with controlled pride as his
buddies received their new ranks and their own medals, but when the moment had
come for LtCol Miller to present him with his Silver Star, he had accepted it
with…

Not with _bad grace_. That, after all, would have been unacceptable. He'd
accepted it formally, properly and composedly… but with the definite air of a
man who felt ill-at-ease.

The Dining Out had followed. Protocol called it the height of bad form to
attend without a date, and so of course he'd asked Martina. She of course had
accepted, and had then sat back to watch him endure a lion's share of all the
good-natured ribbing and camaraderie that were inevitable at such events.

Baseball had earned his share too, of course. Nobody had the faintest idea
_how_ Murray had snuck a pink bowler hat into the mess, let alone how he'd
successfully smuggled it onto Burgess' head without the huge man noticing, but
when the uniform violation had been noted and "punished" with an enormous
measure of the traditional punitive punch 'Grog', the laughter had been
punishingly loud.

It had got even louder when Murray had taken a bow. That was an infraction
itself of course, and Murray had smirked his way to the punch bowl, but the
hat was already doing the rounds, migrating from head to head and eventually
finding a home atop the silver-haired scalp of Admiral Knight, who had
accepted his "punishment" with stately humour.

Adam had made the mistake of protesting when the hat had been dropped on his
head and he'd not even had the chance to snatch it off before a violation was
called. _THAT_ had earned him an upgrade from mere booze, to a stunt for the
amusement of everyone present, and after some theatrical deliberations, Miller
had challenged him to lift a fully laden table over his head without spilling
any drinks.

Adam had _almost_ managed it. One treacherous glass of port had been his
downfall.

Now it was well into the darkest hours of the night. The party had ended, the
nightly rains had faded and she had been walking alongside him as they sobered
up with a stroll through the cool, clean-smelling streets when a thought had
apparently crashed into his brain and set him enthusiastically plotting to
walk, in his words: "Somewhere. You'll see where. It's important."

"Yeah, but _where?_"

"You'll see," he repeated. "I just wanna change first."

"Like I can blame you." Mess Dress was the _worst_.

"Shoulda kept that hat though. It looked pretty good on you."

"I think Firth's date went home wearing it. Who _was_ she, anyway?"

"She's one'a the regulars at Rooney's. Uh… Freya? I think that's her name.
Guess she and Firth have got somethin' going on there."

"Figures she'd be named after a Norse goddess. That was… a lot of woman. In,
uh, the best way." Martina wasn't being unkind - Freya, or whatever her name
was, was Firth's feminine equal in terms of height and physique. The word
'statuesque' would have fallen hopelessly short, unless the statue in question
was Lady Liberty.

Adam chuckled. "She had a go with Sikes first. Apparently he was too gentle
for her."

"Jesus."

"She made a move at me first!" Adam looked equal parts proud and embarrassed.

"You didn't go for it?"

"Should I have?"

"Could be good for you."

He stopped. "You really think so?"

"You're not really ready for anything serious right now, are you?"

Adam shrugged, spread his hands and made a long mumbling noise that
succinctly, though not eloquently, expressed a tangled knot of confused
thoughts. Martina smiled, knowing she'd hit the nail straight on. "Thought
so," she said.

"It's not that I don't _want_ serious…" Adam elucidated. "I just… I'm a
_really_ shitty boyfriend."

"The way I hear it, _she_ cheated on _you_." Martina pointed out.

"Yeah. Because I was a shitty boyfriend."

"It sounds like you almost forgive her."

He shrugged. "I do."

"…You really feel that responsible?"

Adam didn't reply, but she noticed the way that he fiddled absently with the
box in his pocket, the one that contained his newly-awarded medal for valor.

She let him think as they walked to his apartment, up the stairs and through
his front door, where he carefully set the medal on his coffee table and
vanished into the bedroom to get the hell out of the hated mess dress.

It had been quite an impressive citation: That Staff Sergeant Ares had,
without hesitation or fear, advanced under enemy fire to retrieve a wounded
man in an environment where nervejam was being used. That he had voluntarily
served as a decoy to lure hostile forces into an ambush, that after the
destruction of his weapon he had repeatedly exposed himself to fire to keep
his comrades supplied with ammunition and that he had rescued the crew of a
downed Firebird under heavy fire and without cover, placing his own body
between the wounded pilot and the enemy.

Martina had personally dug a Hunter bullet out of his midsuit armor scales.
Ares had claimed to be unaware that he'd been hit.

And he'd looked so fucking _perfect_ while receiving it, too. Uniform aligned
and worn to millimeter precision, every button polished, lapels sharp enough
to slice through a phone book. Public Affairs had been taking pictures, and
something would have to go badly wrong for that material not to find its way
into the Air Force Magazine, the propaganda, and who knew where else.

After all, there was no _way_ the whole "Beef Brothers" thing was going to
just be left to die. Not when both of them had just earned serious
decorations.

In public image Staff Sergeant Ares was a hero, a poster boy, the picture of
Exosolar military perfection. In private Adam himself was a very different
creature, as evidenced by the fact that he emerged from the bedroom wearing
long baggy gym shorts, a muscle T that Martina could have turned into two
dresses, and his bare feet. He grabbed his light hiking bag from where it
lived by the door and didn't even bother with his sandals.

"So _where are we going?_" Martina insisted.

"Up Memorial Hill," he replied, throwing the light bag easily around one
shoulder.

"The cemetery? …We're visiting your friend."

"It's important, Marty."

She touched his arm reassuringly. "I know."

Memorial Hill was the highest terrain for miles around, and the south end of
town skirted its base. Cemeteries were an unfortunate necessity of any
settlement, but Folctha had hoped not to need one for at least another five
years.

In practice, it had needed one much too soon after being founded, to bury a
teenage girl. Her murder had pushed Ares into the military in pursuit of
answers and understanding. The awful thought that went along with that, and it
was one that Martina felt horrible about and so internally glared at until it
shut up and went quiet, was that the human race as a whole would be worse off
if that girl was still alive.

It was a gentle stroll by any human's standards. Memorial Hill was no
deathworld escarpment, but a gentle huge bulge in the landscape, and well
outside of the range of either of Folctha's gravity generators. Any moderately
fit human would have sprang up it and Martina and Adam were _exceptionally_
fit humans. The loose dirt and gravel path with its few wooden steps just made
the ascent even more trivial.

They chatted about the terraforming program as they walked, and about how some
of the locals were, against the odds, actually adapting to the upheavals in
their ecosystem. The Cimbrean Tea plant in particular seemed to actually be
spreading back into Terran biomes, and was being enthusiastically seized on by
the Reclamation scientists as a source of clues as to how they might save more
of the natives from extinction.

Of course, the resurgence of the plant was also creating problems. When
chewed, the young stems were a potent psychedelic, which the _Thing_ had
consistently declined to ban on the grounds that the plant was ubiquitous,
that policing its use would have been prohibitively expensive, and that it was
likely to be extinct before long anyway.

In the meantime, harsh fines had been agreed on for anybody trying to smuggle
it back to Earth, a urine test had been developed, all military personnel on
the planet were forbidden from touching the stuff, and however many of the
civilians were using it were doing so in private.

Adam paused within sight of the summit. "…Somebody's up there."

"You mean there's some other idiot who's dumb enough to be out here at oh-
fuck-thirty in the God-knows-when?" Martina peered up the hill. Cimbrean's
moons - extensive deliberations and motions in the _Thing_ had yet to furnish
them with appropriate names - were small but they had higher albedos than
Luna, and their combined brightness was surprising. Late in the night, after
the nocturnal rains had cleared, at least one of them was usually good enough
to see by.

Tonight was a double full moon, which meant there was even a hint of dusky
blue in the night sky, and sure enough it was pretty easy to make out a dark
figure seated against a tree near the large grey memorial stone at the very
top of the hill.

"How many people are buried up here?" Martina asked.

"Just seven…"

Adam shrugged massively and resumed his trip up the path. Martina followed,
deliberately scuffing her feet in the gravel. "Just seven?" she asked, louder
than before.

The figure under the tree heard her. They turned their head, then planted a
hand on the floor and stood up, dusting off their backside with one hand while
hastily finishing a bottle of something with the other.

Once upright, she was obviously a woman. Not even the most effeminate man had
a silhouette like that.

Adam stopped in his tracks. "…Ava?"

Martina had only briefly met Ava Rios once, during a movie night with the guys
while she and Adam were still dating (one that Burgess had excused himself
from on pretence of a headache) but she was memorable.

"Uh… hey."

"What are you-? I thought you were on Earth?" Adam asked.

"I was, uh… gonna make it a surprise." Ava spread her hands. "…I'm back!" She
offered a pathetic smile.

Adam didn't seem to know what to say. "Back?"

"It's, uh… look, it's a long story and, you're- I mean… Hi." She turned to
Martina. "Uh…Kovač, right?"

Honestly slightly touched at being remembered, Martina nodded. "We didn't mean
to interrupt-" she began.

"No, it's… I've paid my… Uh… Dinner at Dad's sometime soon Adam? Is that
okay?"

"Ava, what-?" Adam begun, but she picked up a bag, gave him a strange,
strained, stressed smile and a rather warmer and more genuine one for Martina,
and retreated down the other path back toward the middle of town.

"Text me!" she called, and fled.

Adam was left standing there like a dog that wasn't sure if it had been
tripped over or kicked.

"…The fuck?" he asked.

Martina watched her go. "I think we interrupted something."

"What do I do, do I-?"

"You let her go, big guy."

Adam cast a final glance down the path as Ava turned the corner and vanished
from sight at a brisk _'getting-the-fuck-out-of-Dodge'_ walk, and deflated via
a long nasal exhalation. He looked strangely angry with himself. "…Shit."

Martina inclined her head, trying to guess at his thoughts, and then decided
that with Warhorse by far and away the best approach was usually the direct
one. "Okay, something's been eating at you all night. You've been putting off
telling me the whole way here, now fucking spill it."

"Agh, it's… two things."

Adam produced the little case with his new medal in it. He set it down
carefully on top of the memorial stone.

The stone was a ten-tonne bluestone monolith, mostly rough cut except for a
flattened patch on the front surface facing town, into which was engraved the
words _'Sacred to the memory of a child of Earth, and to all who shine with
her among the stars.'_

The top was beginning to smooth off as well. People sat on the memorial stone,
they picnicked on it. It was a spectacular view, and in the dark Folctha was a
maze of orange lights below. Adam parked his own butt down atop it and flipped
the case open.

Martina frowned at the little metal star and its red-white-and-blue ribbon.
"Dude, you were awarded the third-highest medal for valor an American can
receive, and it's bringing you down?"

"Three of my buddies died, Marty."

She took a deep breath, nodded, and sat next to him. "And you signed up to
protect people."

"_'That Others May Live.'_ I chose PJ because of that motto. I chose SOR
'cause I figured it was the best way to live up to that motto. And now here I
am, I'm sitting on the memorial to my dead friend, holding a medal I earned on
a mission where three of my buddies were killed, and the ex-girlfriend whose
life I ruined to even get here just ran away down the hill."

"And," he continued "Hell! She's saved more lives than I have!"

"How d'you figure that?"

"She patched up that Delta dude, Coombes, down in Egypt long before I got
there. He'd have died before I even arrived without her, and she did so good a
job that all I had to do was fuckin'… tidy up."

"What about Major Jackson?" Martina pointed out.

"_She_ saved _us_. We'd all be dead if she hadn'a taken that hit for us."

"Dude, I pulled a bullet out of your suit that woulda killed her except you
took it," Martina pointed out. "So you saved her too. And don't forget
Regaari, or all the other ETs that NOVA HOUND got off that station."

"Yeah, well.. That's the other half of it."

"What?"

"I mean, yeah, I'm… glad of those. They stop me from feeling like a complete
fuckin' fraud, right? But… I guess when I signed up, the people I was thinkin'
of when I thought about saving lives were the ones I care about. The ones
close to me." He stared at the medal. "An' that makes me feel selfish, an'… I
don't really know what valor is, but I kinda feel like maybe selfish ain't
part of it."

"That's not selfish."

"Isn't it? Dude!" He waved a hand down the hill in the direction Ava had gone.
"_She's_ living proof."

Martina looked up at the moons for a second and hastily assembled her words.
"Tough love time, big guy," she said. "Listen up."

He straightened and paid attention.

"You're drunk, you're grieving, and you just ran into a girl it's pretty
fucking obvious you still love. Am I right?"

"I ain't goin' back to her," he said, defensively.

"Good." On an impulse, Martina leaned over and kissed him on the cheek. "I
want you all to myself."

He blinked at her. "I, uh… Shit, Marty, I'm crazy about you. But, uh…"

"You're not ready. Dude, I _know_. You're still hung up on her and, yeah, I
reckon you'd be a fucking awful boyfriend anyway. Just…" she took his hand,
"…take it from somebody who cares about you enough to give you the unvarnished
truth, okay? You're _not_ a fraud. They don't give medals like this one for
hard work."

"…You really think so?"

"Abso-fucking-lutely."

After a thoughtful moment, he sighed and relaxed. "I'll… take your word on
it."

Martina chuckled. "Outstanding," she teased. "As for the rest of it… look, I'm
pretty crazy about you too, and we've got time to be patient. Get your head
sorted out, figure out how to not suck at relationships, and we'll take a shot
at it when you're ready, okay?"

"…Can do."

**Date Point: 10y5m4d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

"_HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!_"

Xiu couldn't resist beaming to herself at the awkward but delighted look on
Julian's face. Considering how short-notice the party planning had been, the
BGEV team had really pulled through on throwing him something pretty special.

They were great people, all of them. Maybe it was supposed to be a
counterbalance to the aloof Assessors, who would rip into their day every so
often and do their absolute best to ruin it, but the actual tutors, educators,
organisers and everybody else responsible for getting Xiu, Julian and Allison
mission-ready were genuinely lovely, and had enthusiastically agreed to throw
Julian - a man they had known for not even two weeks - a birthday party so
enthusiastic it was like he was their oldest and dearest friend.

His present from the team was a frankly huge charitable donation in his name,
to the organisation of his choice. Their allowance on personal belongings was
too tight for lavishing him with anything more physical, but Julian's jaw
dropped on seeing the sum being donated on his behalf.

It was a great end to what had been an excellent day: Xiu's first in the
flight simulator.

Piloting a starship, she had learned, was no easy task. At first it had been
easy enough - a simple enough introduction to the basics of pitch, yaw and
roll, but of course spaceships had acceleration as well. Not only in the Y
axis along the line of the ship's primary engines, but also in the X axis
(left and right from Xiu's perspective) and Z (up and down).

Fooling around with these basic controls should have been easy, and in some
ways they were.

In others…

Xiu had quickly found that the simulation didn't have a top speed. Nor did it
have a "stop" button. Every joule of kinetic energy she added in one direction
needed to eventually be perfectly applied again in the opposite direction and
cancelled out, which swiftly got confusing when the same applied to any
rotation on the ship.

She'd tried to listen to her instructors and apply a light touch, but light
touches built up over several seconds, and she always seemed to overcorrect by
applying the maneuvering thrusters for a little too long. Inevitably, she'd
found herself tumbling and disoriented and eventually she'd had to shut her
eyes to banish the rising nausea.

They'd actually congratulated her on holding out as long as she did. All
things considered, it had been fun but frustrating.

These being the early days of their training and to help them ease into life
in The Box, for now they were still being allowed a day off per week which Xiu
and Allison had used in acquiring their present for Julian.

Xiu had questioned Allison's plan of buying him another tomahawk considering
that he already had two, but Allison had insisted. "Trust me," she'd said,
"I've been planning this for a while."

Bereft of better ideas and inclined to trust Allison's judgement in all
matters Julian anyway, Xiu had gone along with it. What Allison had found, it
turned out, was a cutlery company in Omaha who'd invested heavily in some of
the latest and most impressive-sounding manufacturing technology.

Xiu wasn't sure how slow-cool SuperG field-suspension forging went, nor what
Ceres Method fullerene-steel was, but the result apparently was exceptional.
Certainly the man who'd sold them the finished product had been sorry to see
it go: Julian was equally happy to see it arrive.

He tested its edge by intricately slicing up a post-it note, spun it in his
hand and declared the balance superb, enthused at length about pretty much
every aspect of it before finally returning to the real world long enough to
remember to thank his girlfriends for the superb gift.

"It was all Allison," Xiu confessed as they hugged. "I just chipped in."

He kissed her. "It's a great gift anyway. Thank you."

"You don't mind having three of those?"

He laughed. "I wouldn't mind having _thirty_."

Doctor Ericsson clapped him on the shoulder. "Too bad we can't party all
night," he declared, apologetically. "But the three of you are still starting
at six tomorrow."

"Spoilsport," Allison joked, but took both Julian and Xiu's arms.

They wended their way back to the Box, the girls exchanging wry expressions as
Julian geeked out over his new tool. He stashed it safely in one of the armory
lockers in the Box's decontamination room, and relaxed on the couch as Xiu
took the first shower. She always did in the evenings, on the grounds that her
hair needed the longest to dry.

It was still a little awkward, not having any privacy to dispose of her
clothes in the laundry hamper on one side of the room and walk right across it
to enter the shower on the _other_ side of the room, but it was less and less
of a plunge with every passing day. She noticed the way Julian checked her out
as she passed him, but she could hardly complain about that. Not without being
a hypocrite, anyway.

It helped that it was a _good_ shower. Temperature settings to the degree
celsius, pressure selection before it was even turned on… all she had to do
was tap out her preferences and hit start, and a second later her perfect
shower started up. No warmup, no early trickle, just nought to sixty in one
smooth second.

Somebody on the BGEV team really understood the importance of a good shower.

The evening shower was, by agreement, hers to luxuriate in. Julian seemed to
view the shower as a temporary inconvenience - he spun through it and scrubbed
up as quickly as he could, all business and drive. Allison meanwhile needed a
good soak in the morning to help wake up while her two light-sleeping
paramours got breakfast ready, but her evening shower was more businesslike.

Pretty soon they were all clean, and they granted themselves a half hour to
unwind before bed. Julian spent it reading, while Xiu sat next to him on the
couch and watched an episode of _The Legend of Korra_ with Allison, who was
lying across both their laps. She wasn't quite sure _why_ they'd settled on
cartoons as their go-to for entertainment, but they just seemed to _work_ \-
something quick and harmless to switch the brain off before, after half an
hour, they dragged Julian away from his book, bade each other goodnight,
climbed into their bunks and turned out the lights.

_Some dreams are more lucid than others. Tonight's is very lucid indeed - Xiu
knows it's a dream within seconds of finding herself standing in front of the
grand doors of the female commune in Wi Kao city._

_Being aware of the dream and influencing it are different things though. Xiu
knows that the commune isn't on Earth, and it's certainly not in Yosemite
park. But it is in the dream world, and she wonders what connection her
subconscious is drawing between those two different and distant places._

_She sits down on the rock - THE rock, the kissing rock - to begin pondering
that connection, when she_ jolted awake in response to an unexpected sound.

Sleeping lightly had become an important skill in space. Not that she'd ever
had to rely on it, but Xiu had known in her bones that the one time a human
was ever really vulnerable was at night, asleep. As a matter of survival,
therefore, any noise out of place was enough to wake her.

The noise in question was a creak, and Julian giving a surprised grunt and
whispering something. "…Al?"

Allison's reply was barely audible. "I'm lonely. Move over, birthday boy."

"'Kay…"

There was a rustling of blankets and a couple of satisfied noises as,
presumably, Allison wriggled into bed alongside him. There really wasn't a lot
of room for two on the bunks, so they must have been pressed right up against
each other.

Xiu smiled to herself and fell asleep again.

She woke up to the sound of more _sotto voce_ conversation below.

"Mmm… did you smuggle a candy bar out of the party, or are you just glad I'm
here?"

"Gimme a break, it's been a couple'a weeks since we last…" Julian grumbled,
then gasped. _"Al!"_

Allison laughed quietly. There was a soft cloth sound, like she was
rhythmically and slowly moving her hand. _"Mmmhmm, that feels nice."_

_"Allison!_ Xiu's a light sleeper!"

"So be quiet…"

Xiu heard her twist in bed and turn over. There was a prolonged rustling, a
deep-voiced "Mmm" from Allison and Julian produced another, louder gasp.

"Are you _crazy?!_ She's going to- Agh, **_God."_**

"She can watch if she likes, I don't care."

"But-!"

"Shhh… Quiet, baby. Just lie back and enjoy your birthday present…"

"Oh _fffuck…_ Yes, ma'am."

Allison chuckled softly. "Good boy." She made another hedonistic "mmm", and
this one was underpinned by a kind of wet mouth sound. Almost like she was
licking or sucking on somethi-

Oh.

**_Oh._**

Xiu's hazy, sleepy, warm oblivious daze evaporated as she finally got her head
around what they were doing. Between the sound of her own suddenly pounding
pulse and the heat of what was probably the most powerful blush she'd ever
worn, it became difficult for her to keep listening, but listen she did. She
lay there afraid to move in case they stopped, and paid rapt attention to all
of it, every slick noise and feminine purr as Julian did his best - which
wasn't very good - _not_ to gasp, moan or whisper little words of praise.

Eventually, he failed completely. His breath had been catching for a minute or
two, and Xiu shut her eyes and chewed frantically on her lip as he gasped
heavily three times, his breathing stopped completely for a few seconds, and
when it finally came back, it did so as a guttural _'aaugh!_ and several deep,
shuddering, cleansing gulps of air.

She clearly heard Allison _swallow_ and shush him loudly, trying and failing
to laugh in a whisper.

It was too absurd: Xiu couldn't stop herself from giggling along with her.

They both immediately went still and quiet, and when he tentatively spoke,
Julian's tone of voice even _sounded_ like his eyes were screwed shut,
mortified. "…_Ssshit._ You heard that, didn't you?"

Xiu rolled over and poked her head over the edge of her bunk to give them an
apologetic smile. "All of it. Sorry."

She got a glimpse of everything that Julian had to offer before he was able to
flinch and cover himself. Allison hastily snatched a hand out of her
underwear, looking much more embarrassed than her earlier bravado had
suggested. She cleared her throat, and hurriedly wiped something off the
corner of her mouth. "Uh… sorry…. I-I just, uh…" she stammered.

"It's _okay_." Xiu promised.

Allison and Julian glanced at each other, both clearly embarrassed and a bit
ashamed. Some kind of rapid, nervous conversation that seemed to consist
entirely of raising their eyebrows and biting their lips passed between them,
then Julian made a _'snrrk'_ noise and shook his head, Allison giggled, and
the two of them finally relaxed.

"…You're sure?" Julian asked.

"Guys, I love you. You don't have to be celibate, really." Xiu promised.
"Anyway, um… that sounded _really_ hot."

"It was." Allison winked like one of the devil's own courtesans. Julian
cleared his throat and slid past her to make the walk of shame to the toilet.
Both girls watched him go.

As soon as the door closed behind him, Allison stood up and hugged her.

"You're _sure_ you don't mind?" She asked.

Xiu rolled her eyes and sighed. _"Shǎguā…"_ she said, lovingly. "Al, I was
getting worried about you guys. I don't want to stop you from anything."

"Shag wha?"

"It's like… It's an affectionate way of… It means _'stupid melon'_." Xiu
smiled.

"'Dummy'?"

"Yeah." Xiu giggled again. "Stop worrying about it, dummy. I'm not your mom."

Allison laughed. "Okay. Okay… Thanks."

"Come on, we're gonna be stuck together in a room like this for like _two
years."_ Xiu pointed out. "They're right, we've got to get used to
_everything._ This one's **easy** next to the shower."

"Yeah?"

Xiu glanced at the restroom door and lowered her voice even further, feeling
her blush start up again. "I uh… I really enjoyed listening to it." She
confessed.

Allison grinned. "You wanna try it sometime?"

"Uh, um…" Xiu shook her head and gulped, blushing fiercely. "I-I'm, I'm, I,
um, I'm not…"

"Ready." Allison finished for her and nodded, though Xiu thought she detected…
disappointment? Sadness? …behind the understanding and sympathy. "Okay. Well,
when you are, let me know. 'Kay?"

"…_If_ I ever am." Xiu promised.

To her surprise, Allison kissed her. As first kisses went, it wasn't much at
all - little more than an arguably chaste taste of her lips - but it was a
real, tender and unforced physical gesture of affection. The kind of kiss that
Xiu had seen her give Julian in passing, as a kind of natural romantic
punctuation to daily life.

"You will be," she promised, and stooped to climb back into Julian's bunk.
"G'night, babe."

"…'Night." Xiu echoed. She rolled back onto her back, then onto her right
side, and snuggled up into her blankets feeling strangely warm and at peace on
the inside.

She didn't hear Julian make the return trip from the restroom - she'd already
smiled herself to sleep.

**Date Point: 10y6m AV**  
**Yavun Marketplace, City of Wi Kao, Planet Gao.**

**_Myun_**

Sister Shoo had once mentioned that human pregnancies lasted three-quarters of
an Earth year, and with a bit of research Myun had learned that an Earth year
was a fifth longer than a Gaoian one.

Myun had never been terribly fond of mathematics, but figuring out that these
two facts made human gestation nearly twice as long as a Gaoian's had been
simple enough.

Given that she was already feeling constantly tired and hungry and was yipped
at by cautious Mothers whenever she walked at anything faster than a careful
shuffle, Myun was beginning to wonder how a _human_ of all things could endure
becoming so limited? They were so agile and strong and solid, to lose all of
that even temporarily must be infuriating.

She was already resolved to be _very_ picky with her males. If she was going
to have to endure _this_ kind of inconvenience every time she mated, then she
was _"damned"_ if she was going to do so for anything less than a supreme
specimen.

As for the humans… well, that was a mystery. One that had set Ayma to
chittering when Myun had mentioned it. "You'll see," she had promised. "It's
rewarding, I promise."

Myun remained skeptical.

There _was_ one good thing about bearing a cub, though - she _smelled_
pregnant, which meant that the males weren't constantly trying to seduce her.
They were still treating her nicely and giving her all the respect that a
Female was due of course, but they were also being more genuine, more…
themselves. They weren't trying to impress, and a few of them even earned
themselves an upgrade into Myun's private 'maybe' list - the one for if Mother
Ayma turned out to be right.

They gave her a respectful berth on the street as she headed for the market.
Females had their needs paid for by male contributions to the communes of
course, but while that covered the bare essentials, any female who wanted some
luxuries or spending money had to earn it. Myun's usual revenue stream was
combat training - several of the more military-minded Clans like Whitecrest
and One-Fang were enthusiastic about cubs that Myun had taught _Gung Fu_ while
they were young - apparently the ingrained instincts and techniques she
instilled in them gave them quite an edge in their Trials.

She spent that money on more of the same. She was completely aware that she
had only a few years left in which to _properly_ learn things before she
reached the long stretch of a Gaoian's mature life, when the brain settled
down from its cubbish phase of learning _everything_ and new pathways forged
themselves more slowly and with much greater difficulty.

To that end she studied - as best she could considering she was relying on
imported human data purchased via a trader with contacts on Cimbrean - every
human martial art she could get her paws on, from Shoo's _Gung Fu_ to so-
called "HEMA" that seemed to require wearing a quarter-tonne of metal.

She'd pared that down to the essentials, and incorporated it - especially the
swordfighting techniques - into her fusion blade drills.

She'd also spent three months' income on having a human style sword made, and
had promptly downgraded the merchant who'd taken her order to the "no way"
list after he'd given her a _very_ strange look.

It was taller than she was from hilt to tip, and looked like it should have
been about as wieldy as a bus. In practice, the long handle provided so much
leverage that the weapon would have been an agile whirl of deadly steel had
the Guard-Mother, Fara, not insisted that it _must_ be blunt and purely
decorative.

Myun hadn't been happy, but she knew how to pick her fights nowadays. She'd
surreptitiously had the handle of her official weapon lengthened and took
solace in knowing that in the infinitely unlikely scenario that she ever did
have to fight with it for real, she'd be the deadliest Sister ever to defend a
commune.

Today's project was a gentler pursuit - she was doing the heavy lifting for
Mother Esu. As Myun's adult coat had come in she'd been inwardly quite pleased
to discover that she was a "brownie" \- a clear sign that her Sire was from a
labor clan such as the Stonebacks or the Ironclaws. Between that genetic
advantage and a lifetime of sewing weights into her clothing, Myun was strong
in a way that females rarely were nowadays. Strong enough to put plenty of
males in their place when she wanted to, even if she _was_ frustratingly under
strict orders from Mother Ayma not to strain herself during her pregnancy.

Mother Yulna, as always, had made her feel better. "You're guarding a cub in
there, Myun," she had cautioned, immediately putting it into perspective for
her. Yulna was going to be an _excellent_ Mother-Supreme.

She swayed around a cargo drone that was thrumming gently down the street and
then stepped into a doorway as the communicator clipped to her ear buzzed
gently and played a call tone at just the right volume that she could hear it
loud and clear, but nobody else could.

This one was a custom tone: Her cub's sire.

She tapped it, and it projected a semi-transparent holographic 'screen' in
front of her eyes. "Regaari? Hello! Is this a social call, or business?"

Uncharacteristically, Regaari sounded stressed. _"I'm afraid it's business,
Myun. I have a bit of a problem I need your help with…"_

"_You're_ the Whitecrest," she pointed out. She extended a claw and
thoughtfully picked a scrap of her lunch out of her teeth. "Aren't you the
problem-solver?"

_"Indeed, which is why I've called you. I have a feeling you wouldn't object
to the idea of relocating to Cimbrean…"_

"…You're not wrong." Myun straightened up and pricked up her ears, thoroughly
interested.

_"Good, because… tell me, have you heard of the Racing Thunder?"_

**Date Point: 10y6m AV**  
**New Mexico, USA, Earth**

**_Master Sergeant Christian Firth_**

"Fookin' Christ it's hot…"

Firth suppressed a smirk. The Major was right, New Mexico was hot as shit,
much hotter than his native Kentucky. It was good to see him sweating. Powell
and Murray both came from Great Britain and strolled around Cimbrean - a
planet that was downright cold by Firth's standards - as if it was balmy and
comfortable.

Already, Murray was going red and had jammed a field hat down around his ears
to try and keep that delicate Scottish skin from scorching. Major Powell's
quiet complaint was a sign that he was really struggling - he hadn't even
commented on the heat in Alabama back when they'd been undergoing their
astronaut training - and while Firth had to admit he preferred the air-
conditioning in the truck to the thermal hammer-blow that had hit them the
second the doors opened, he was damn well going to show up the Brits this
time.

At least it was a _dry_ heat. Not to mention perfect Aloha Shirt weather -
he'd found a truly _vile_ one with some kind of fantasy artwork where an
unreasonably slim man with spiky hair and a suit of impractical armor was
brandishing a stupid wavy sword twice his size. Murray had mimed dry-heaving
on seeing it, which meant it was perfect.

He was never going to beat Rebar for hot-weather comfort, though. Rebar was
from Arizona. Rebar looked like he was out for a stroll in the park.

They all took a moment to stretch out after the long drive. Huge though the
truck was, SOR men were huger, and Firth had been behind the driver's seat. It
felt odd letting the officer drive, but that was just one of the old man's
quirks - he preferred to take the wheel himself if he could.

They'd pulled up outside what was basically a large tin shed, a few miles west
of a town whose next door neighbors were the middle of nowhere. It was a good
shed, though - new, strong metal, well built, and a new and brightly painted
sign on the roof that read _'Black Ogre Munitions.'_

Rebar read their motto aloud. "_'Because We Can'_, huh? I think I like these
guys already."

"'S quite the resume," Powell commented, rolling his sleeves down to try and
ward off sunburn. "Apparently these gents got caught up in Syria back in the
day. You heard about Al-Mashqouq an' that business wi' the Jordanians?"

Firth hadn't. Vandenberg clearly had - his eyebrows cranked upwards and a
half-smile twisted the corner of his mouth. "That was them? Shit, I may have
to get me an autograph."

Before Firth could ask, the front door opened and a sturdy man limped out
wearing a prosthetic leg, a polo shirt with the company logo on the breast and
a USMC veteran hat.

"Gunnery Sergeant Howard, I presume," Powell said, meeting him with a
handshake.

"Yes sir," Howard grinned, and did the rounds, welcoming them all. Firth
didn't even notice his two missing fingers until they were shaking hands. "And
I think you'll like what I've got to show you."

"Anything to get out of this bloody heat," Powell replied, in characteristic
gruff humor. Howard caught on easily enough and beckoned them inside with a
smile.

The air conditioning was a welcome relief after the noonday blast furnace
outside, and Murray sighed happily as he turned his sweat-soaked back towards
the vent. Poor Highland hadn't even looked so uncomfortable back in Egypt. It
wasn't actually _cool_ in the workshop, as there was an assortment of machines
that were busy warming the place up as a byproduct of actually doing their
jobs, under the supervision of a handful of other men of varying age who all
straightened up to welcome their guests. There was another round of
introductions and handshakes.

Rebar was already running his eye over the workshop. To Firth, it had an odd
mismatch going on - around the walls and in the corners were the kind of
scuffed and well-used metal tools, benches, cabinets and equipment that might
have been built fifty or sixty years ago. Next to those distinctly second-hand
looking items, the three sleek bits of inscrutable modern tech in the middle
of the 'shop looked badly out of place, almost like some kind of Corti
spaceship had landed in the middle of a WW2 reenactment.

Introductions complete, Howard led them through out of the noise and
comparative warmth of the workshop into an even cooler office space, and
scanned his palm print on a heavy door that led into what turned out to be the
armory.

Resting on the large steel table in the middle of the room was the item they'd
come to review. Howard picked it up, checked it, and then stood with it slung
comfortably in his arm as he introduced them.

"No preamble," he promised, "This baby here's our flagship item, the Black
Ogre Munitions Gauss Rifle One, type D. She's envisioned as a bespoke and
highly modifiable platform for small elite units who need to get the most bang
for their buck on ammo weight."

Considering the damage to his dominant hand he did a quick and easy job of
disassembling the weapon until it was down to just the barrel group, a pile of
various accessories, and the receiver.

"As you can see, we've gone with a bullpup configuration. Nice thing about a
gauss rifle, because the trigger system's completely electronic we've got a
nice crisp trigger pull and because she fires these .45 caliber caseless
ferrous slugs, there's no brass to eject so it's just as good if you're a
righty or a lefty. No brass of course also means a much reduced likelihood of
a malfunction."

"Firing power is provided by these energy hypercells." He lifted one from the
table - it was about as big as Firth's thumb. "This little guy right here's
worth about a gallon of gasoline, which depending on which barrel coils you're
using should get you anywhere between about two thousand and five thousand
shots- yes?"

Vandenberg had put his hand up. "That's an awful lot of energy density, Gunny.
I have safety concerns about stability there - last thing we want is one of
our guys blowing up 'cause his power cell got damaged."

"Well…okay, that's valid." Howard scratched at his nose, looking possibly a
bit crestfallen and defensive. "We were concerned about the weight with larger
cells…"

The Lads chuckled mirthlessly. "Bro," said Rebar, as he rolled up his sleeve
and flexed his enormous forearm, "We're not even the biggest guys on the team.
The Beef Brothers make Firth here look _small."_ Firth grinned and stood up a
little straighter. He was so overwhelmingly big he didn't need to do anything
to make the point besides simply stand in place and loom. The BOM team boggled
at the sight, visibly revising some of their estimates upwards by a few
multiples.

"Mass ain't a concern for any of us, even Powell." He confirmed, and nodded
respectfully at his officer who smiled his faint approving smile.

"Bulk," Murray pointed out.

"Right, yeah" Rebar nodded. "It's bulk that matters - we're way past caring
too much about weight. What we _need_ is something sleek that can take a hell
of a jolt without, oh…"

"Blowing up, breaching the hull of whatever ship or station we're aboard,
explosively decompressing the whole thing and killing everybody?" Firth
suggested.

"That."

Howard glanced at two of his colleagues. "We could reinforce the cell's
housing…" he suggested. He demonstrated where the cell usually lived in a
receiver under the barrel. "If we gave it plenty of protection in there, it
shouldn't add much to the weapon's size. Use a lower energy cell, maybe? But
you'd need to carry more. Hmm…"

The Major cleared his throat "Lads, let's keep focused on the platform. We can
customize and revise later."

"Right." Howard, nodded, and continued his demonstration.

Together they enthused over the base receiver and its standardized feed for
the projectiles, which also housed the controlling electronics that were
common to all variants, along with a military-grade Bluetooth radio, a
respectably powerful integrated computer and its copious and well-protected
flash storage. The barrel, coil, and power assembly were entirely replaceable,
isolating the power electronics from the more sensitive bits of the weapon.
Like most modern combat platforms with close-quarters fighting in mind, the
stock, grips, shrouds, rails, and all other accessories were also fully
modular and replaceable.

"Lastly, there's a built-in low-speed databus on these rails that works with
contact pins along the bottom of an accessory. That lets you mount either
standard Picatinny scopes, sights, and so forth, or whatever 'smart' device is
developed in the future. The rails use a modified RS-485 serial bus; simple,
robust, low-power, and a modest but very reliable signaling rate. We, uh,
don't know what you may want to do with it, but the firmware in the receiver
can be fully upgraded."

"Akiyama was tellin' me about these just the other day," Rebar enthused.
"Since it's serial, we're totally free to do whatever we want. The wire
protocol isn't even defined."

"Yup! We wanted to keep this as open as possible. Given, uh, how much the
stats and pics didn't do you fellas justice…" He looked them over again, still
maybe not quite believing his eyes, "It's clear we need to re-think parts of
this."

"'Horse and 'Base would prolly prefer DU rounds and the biggest fuckin' coils
you could manage," commented Firth. "Me too, maybe."

"DU poses its own risks."

"Yup, but if we're doing our jobs they shouldn't really be shootin' anything
'cept on recovery, or whatever."

"Aye," nodded Powell. "Fewer rounds, but hit with those as hard as possible.
But those are details we should address in the design critique. Before that,
I'd like to see how these weapons fire."

"Can do, sir." Gunny smiled happily.

Much to Murray's disgust, the range was outside, back in the relentless heat.
The Major bore it with better humor this time, probably because he had a rifle
to play with.

Howard didn't waste their time - he gave them a quick familiarization and then
stood back to watch the fireworks while dropping in remarks about the weapon's
muzzle energy, rate of fire and accuracy.

Firth drew the short straw and had to go last, but just watching the others
shoot gave him a decent idea what to expect. When he finally got his hands on
it, he lined up on his fresh new paper target - thoughtfully, BOM had given
them Hunter-shaped targets - and happily drilled it right between its three
central eyes. Something about nailing those monstrous fucks right between
their fuckin' eyes just felt _right_…

The recoil took a few shots to get used to, but that was just because the
profile was very different to a conventional firearm. Rather than an explosive
kick in the shoulder, the GR1-D shoved instead. There was still plenty of
force involved, but it didn't peak as high and was delivered over a slightly
longer interval.

The impressive part was the helical magazine. From what Howard was saying, the
caseless ammo took up only a third of the volume of conventional 5.56mm, and
BOM had set themselves - and met - the challenge of making use of that
phenomenon by fitting three times as many rounds into something no larger than
a STANAG magazine. He didn't go into detail about how it worked, but there was
something deeply wood-inducing about the words "ninety round mag."

"Thoughts?" Gunny looked smug as fuck, like he'd just nailed the hottest girl
at the prom. And after all…

"I think I'm in love," drawled Firth. "Hell, I think I love this more than
Walsh's sister."

"High praise," Murray smirked.

"That magazine's reliability will need to be proven. I wanna take it apart and
see how it manages to feed and fit ninety rounds stacked up. And we'll need to
iterate on this platform design pretty hard to get what we need," cautioned
Vandenberg, "Especially, I think, with suit integration. We've got these nice
HUDs and it seems criminal not to use them."

"On-weapon video?" Murray's suggestion was so obvious nobody on the team even
needed an explanation.

"Oh, fuck!" Firth laughed at the possibilities, "Imagine! Just stick your
boomstick over a wall, or whatever, and look around corners! Plink Haji
without even exposing yourself!"

"Yup. Serial ain't terribly fast, but it's reliable, and hell, with a good
video codec, maybe multiple Bluetooth--"

"Weeds," Powell commented. It was an American term, but a useful one that he'd
picked up, which cautioned against getting tangled up in unnecessary details.

Vandenberg grinned sheepishly. "Sorry, sir. Also, I reckon I'd be happy to
pump even more muzzle energy out of this bad boy. You said two thousand shots
per cell, minimum, so we've got room to play around there."

"What about recoil…?" Gunny glanced yet again at the prodigiously muscled men
he was addressing and corrected himself. Vandenberg's forearm wouldn't have
fit in the cup of Howard's prosthetic leg. "Never mind."

"All told, I think we're optimistic," Powell declared, after catching his
men's eyes and receiving a nod from all of them. "If we take it as a given
that we're going to want those energy cells to be fookin' bombproof, about how
long d'you reckon you'd need to make that change?"

Howard glanced at his colleagues. "I'd call that… 'bout a month?" There were
some nods. "Yeah. As for the mag testing, you're welcome to take a couple home
with you."

"And the suit HUD integration's more down to C&amp;M than to these fellas,"
Vandenberg commented.

"Aye. Guess we'll be seeing you in a couple of months, then." Powell shook
Howard's hand "Best o' luck with the modifications,"

"Like we'll need luck," Gunny grinned. Powell chuckled, and they walked round
the building to get back to their truck.

Murray sighed his relief as the aircon blasted cold air in his face, and
ruffled his hair.

"Please tell me our next stop isn'y as hot as this place," he pleaded.

"Well our next stop is Alabama to check on the gentlemen coming up the
Highway," Powell grumbled, "So it's not exactly gonna be fookin' Siberia."

Murray groaned, causing Firth and Vandenberg to exchange grins. The two Brits
took considerable pride in their stoicism, and seeing either of them be
anything other than perfectly taciturn was a rare treat. Both at once?

"What's the matter bro?" Rebar joked. "It's Huntsville, the _north_ of
Alabama. Hell, it'll be just like bonny Glasgow, you'll see."

"Oh aye, I'll get a munchy box and some Irn Bru and sit down to watch Celtic
give Rangers a pasting," Murray snorted.

"See? Just like home." Firth grinned as Murray rolled his eyes and wisely held
his peace. The Major had a glimmer of amusement in his eyes as he finished
programming the truck's GPS. It felt WRONG being in a truck that big that
didn't roar when it started, but that was modern vehicles for you. Its
electric drive was just as good as any diesel engine even if it _was_ too
quiet.

They exchanged final gestures of farewell with Howard and pulled out.

"We're buying that rifle," Powell said, the moment there was no possibility of
the retired gunnery sergeant hearing them.

"I ever tell you how much I love you, sir?" Firth asked him.

Powell snorted. "Far too bloody often."

A little round of mirth lapped the vehicle. "So what're the cherries like?"
Vandenberg asked.

"Likely lads. We're getting another officer at long bloody last - he's
Canadian - plus a Kiwi engineer, an Irish lad who fancies himself the next
Warhorse, and yet another bloody Air Force type."

Firth beamed as Vandenberg groaned beside him. "Anyone I know?"

"SOWT. Name of Mason."

"_Umar_ Mason?"

"Ah, you do know 'im, then."

"Second-quietest motherfucker I ever met."

"Do you know literally _everybody_ in the Air Force?" Vandenberg demanded

"Special operations is a small community, bro, you know this. You could fit
every single operator in the entire airforce in our gravball court an' it
wouldn't be much crowded."

Rebar grunted. "Dude, Army's way bigger. Why ain't we got more Army?"

"Too busy here on Earth," Murray observed, grimly. It wasn't a joke. They were
all acutely aware that they were toward the sharp end of a very expensive
wedge of military spending, a lot of which had been repurposed from elsewhere
- humanity's survival in the face of interstellar extinction-level threats was
being bought at the cost of growing instability at home. The new guy in the
White House had inherited a record national debt, taken one look at the
briefing that Allied Extrasolar Command had prepared for him, and promptly
rubber-stamped his approval for that debt to keep growing.

Meanwhile, in pretty much every sun-lashed corner the Earth had to offer,
conventional forces were slowly having to take up more and more of the slack
as the high-tech assets that had hovered protectively over their shoulders
throughout the previous decades were being stretched thinner and thinner
across an ever broader and deeper clusterfuck that was now stretching all the
way from the Strait of Gibraltar to the Andaman Sea, with no clear end in
sight.

Maybe now that the Hierarchy was no longer fanning those flames, there might
_finally_ be a turn-around.

Firth viewed it as his duty to break up awkward silences, and the one that
descended in response to Murray's observation was a ringer. "…I wanna meet
this Irish dude," he declared. "Anyone who thinks he's beatin' 'Horse before I
do's gotta have big brass ones, or be crazy."

"Implying you're sane," Rebar quipped.

Firth tugged his trademark aviator shades from his chest pocket, and put them
on with a huge grin. "Dude, I'mma beat him. It's my fuckin' destiny."

"If you say so. Smart money's on Ares, right Murray?"

Murray, in typically verbose style, rocked once with a contained half-laugh
and nodded.

"Heh. You'll see, I'mma catch his stumpy ass and take that money."

"Unless Irish gets there first."

"We'll see, bro. We'll see."

**Date Point 10y6m AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Allison Buehler_**

Allison was ambivalent about the early afternoon PT session she was looking
at.

Really, she'd have preferred to keep working on her electrical engineering.
All of her existing knowledge and experience with fixing and maintaining stuff
consisted of knowing what size of thingy fit in what kind of receiver and how
to take it out again when it needed replacing.

Being BGEV-11's mechanic was going to require a reserve of academic knowledge
to complement the hands-on stuff, and while Allison congratulated herself that
hers was a damn good brain, the fact was that her education had largely been
provided by the school of hard knocks. Somewhere along the line a mild
prejudice against formal education had ingrained itself into her soul, and she
was finally having to try and scrub it out.

In fact her head felt like it was stuffed with electric spiders, and she was
feeling drained and sleepy just from spending the whole morning thinking hard,
trying to memorize rules and laws and constants and applied mathematics, most
of which she was learning from scratch. It was exhausting… but on the other
hand, the moment of revelation when she'd _finally_ clicked onto what
logarithms were and what they did had been incredible. She'd gone home after
that session with a huge smile.

She could _feel_ that she was on the verge of a similar breakthrough today, if
only this damn PT lesson hadn't come along to interrupt her. This was to be
their first with an actual instructor - apparently there had been a bit of a
hiring mixup - and Allison was faintly skeptical. She, Xiu and Julian had all
thrived in space for _years_ without falling into the trap of low-G muscle
atrophy. They _knew_ how to stay in shape.

Whatever. There was no point in getting changed - the three of them lived in
their "uniform" of black track pants and a white sports shirt anyway, and
apparently the previous BGEV missions had all worn that same combination
aboard the actual ship. Sportswear, it turned out, was eminently practical
clothing for a starship's crew.

Julian had suggested it was also probably a team-building thing, to make them
feel like a unit. Allison couldn't find much ground to argue - they were all
using the same soap and shampoo, they were eating the same food, they had
pretty much identical routines… They already smelled alike, so dressing alike
was probably just another way of forging the bond.

While that should have seemed slightly manipulative and creepy, Allison had to
be honest with herself that she actually enjoyed it.

She pushed the thought aside and headed for the Hab mockup.

While the Box itself was a mock-up of the interior of their ship (never mind
that they hadn't yet technically won the right to fly it, all three of them
now emphatically thought of BGEV-11 as _their_ ship) the training facility
around it contained mock-ups of the interior of the Box. It had come as a
surprise to them that even the hab room had been duplicated, though a few
details were off now that they'd had time to settle in and personalize the
real Hab a bit. When Julian was putting the clean laundry away, for instance,
he folded the towels in thirds rather than in halves, and Xiu was strangely
particular about where each knife lived inside the knife block.

The differences between the mockup and their real living space was subtle, but
noticeable and reassuring - it suggested that they genuinely did have some
privacy together.

Julian and Xiu were already there and limbering up when she arrived, and it
made for an entertaining sight. Julian had earned his fitness through hard
work and labor, and Allison had to admit he'd probably benefit from tuition -
he really didn't know how to limber up properly. Xiu on the other hand had
spent her teenage years practicing ballet, gymnastics and _Gung Fu_, and her
idea of stretching out was, by anyone else's standards, almost contortionism.
One foot on the floor, the other on the wall above head height, eyes shut and
face pinched with discomfort as she leaned forward to touch her forehead to
her shin.

She gave Allison a strained sideways smile by way of welcome, and Allison sat
down with Julian to help him actually stretch properly.

They were still warming up when the door opened and Doctor Clara Brown backed
into the room with her arms full of documents and talking animatedly with her
colleague on matters of grave scientific magnitude.

"-just saying, why do they even bother? They're human-sized talking turtles,
it's not like they can just take the masks off and blend into the crowd if
they- oh, hey guys!"

"Hey Clara," Allison called.

"Hi! So, guys, this is my husband Dane, your fitness coach."

Dane was a slim, friendly-looking guy who met them all with a round of
handshakes and - a fact that immediately endeared him to Allison - no sign of
weighing them up or evaluating them yet. It was so nice to meet somebody who
first and foremost seemed guilelessly happy to meet them.

Julian met him with a handshake, "Gotta admit, I'm looking forward to seeing
what you've got for us."

"Nothing big for today. I just want to see where you're at," Dane replied,
shaking Xiu's hand. He turned to Allison for the last handshake and smiled.
"Should be fun."

"I'll leave you guys to get acquainted, then," Clara said. "Oh, and Julian, my
dad wanted me to tell you that we're definitely going to try and improve your
foot's performance. The Assessors aren't happy with it."

"Figures," Julian sighed. "Thanks Clara."

Dane inspected the offending prosthetic as Allison touched Julian reassuringly
on the arm. Much as the assessment team were usually the bane of his, hers and
Xiu's collective life, in this case they had a good point. The mere fact that
Julian kept epoxy glue and needle-nose pliers in his pocket and was doing well
if he went four days without having to hunch over his foot and fix it was a
good sign that things needed to change.

Otherwise, it was an incredible foot. From a distance, you'd be forgiven for
thinking that he was absent-mindedly wearing a lone white sock, or some kind
of compression bandage. Up close it was a little stranger to look at - every
tissue and bone of the human foot had been exactly duplicated, right up to and
including a surrogate circulatory system that osmosed the needed sugars and
oxygen out of Julian's own blood at the ingenious and self-sterilizing
junction where his truncated natural leg met the replacement.

He'd had to endure visits from _dozens_ of prosthetic and rehabilitation
specialists during their hospital stay in Vancouver.

The only anomalies were that said "tissues" and "bones" were in white and
black respectively, and that the foot had no covering of skin, which Kirk had
omitted based on his prediction that, Dominion medical materials science being
a ways behind the human body as it was, Julian would need to regularly tinker
with it. A prediction that had emphatically come true.

"So," Dane smiled at his wife as she left and then turned back to the three of
them. "Let's put you through your paces."

True to his word, he didn't let them relax until all three of them were on the
verge of collapse, which Allison was dismayed to find came embarrassingly
quickly for her. They swung kettlebells, jogged, pulled up, rowed, curled,
butterflied, squatted, crunched, dipped, lunged, pressed, extended and raised
until her limbs were agonising rubber noodles and her vision was going blurry.
Dane ordered her to sit down and rest, and she collapsed like a puppet with
cut strings, breathing a hurricane while her heart hurled itself angrily at
the back of her sternum.

When she was finally able to sit up, she did so only to watch miserably as Xiu
and Julian both outstripped her by a dramatic margin.

She was far from being the only competitive one among them, though. Xiu and
Julian fed off each other, both determined not to come in second place, and
just when it looked like one of them was flagging they'd glance at the other
and find new reserves. In the end, male biology gave Julian just enough of an
edge and Dane finally had to instruct Xiu to stop - she staggered to a bench
and crashed onto it, leaning against the wall and gulping for air, shining wet
from scalp to sole.

Julian managed to stagger on, with shouted encouragement, for another twenty
seconds before Dane at last let him rest.

"Okay. Wow!" he beamed at the three of them as he handed around the sports
drinks. "I'm really impressed, guys."

He caught the dissatisfied look on Allison's face and clapped her heartily on
the shoulder. "You did _great_," he promised. "Don't beat yourself up,"

Allison shook her head. "I thought I was fitter than that…" she groused. Dane
smiled.

"Look at it as a pleasant surprise," he advised. "You've got a lot to look
forward to! And this should make you feel better; you've got the best form.
Julian, buddy, we've _got_ to get that foot sorted out for you 'cause right
now you're favoring it and it's throwing you right off. Xiu, very very good
indeed, but you've picked up a couple'a bad habits that we're gonna want to
straighten out.

Xiu acknowledged the praise with a nod. She didn't open her eyes, even as she
popped the top on her drink and did her level best to drain it in one go.
Julian just inspected his foot ruefully and nodded.

"So. Allison, we're going to focus on mass, that should bring the extra
endurance with it. I'll send you guys your meal plans in the morning. Julian,
I think we're going to be working on your form first and foremost, but also
your legs and lower body. Xiu, mostly we're just going to correct those bad
habits and then I'll start teaching you how to do my job. All fair?"

"Fair," Allison acknowledged. "Guys?"

Julian nodded. "Sounds good to me."

"_Sho wia-_," Xiu stopped and scowled at herself. "Uh… Yes."

"You okay?" Allison asked. Xiu was slipping into Gaori less often nowadays,
but it still happened when she was distracted.

"Just beat."

Dane chuckled. "You're all _super_ motivated," he said. "Keep pushing
yourselves like that and we'll get you mission-fit in no time."

He gave them a minute longer to recover, then stood up and smacked his hands
together eagerly. "So. Second half."

All three of them groaned, and he grinned. "Hey, hey, it's important. We're
going to warm down, stretch out, make sure you're not too sore tomorrow. Come
on, up!"

Allison was last to her feet, helped upright by Xiu who got a grateful smile
and a one-armed squeeze by way of thanks.

True to his word, the second half of Dane's session was easier. Not _easy_ \-
Allison had to grit her teeth and console herself with thoughts of future
improvement as again the other two outperformed her - but by the time Dane
finally let them go she was at least feeling human, rather than half-dead. In
fact, she felt pretty good. Positive, even.

The three of them were given enough time to return to the Box for a shower, a
change into clean clothes, and a quick afternoon snack to tide them over until
dinner, and then they exchanged kisses and parted ways again for their evening
training.

The evening session was practical skills, and today was welding which was a
welcome relief. After the brain-fuzzing frustration of the morning session and
the minor humiliation of the PT, throwing herself into something she was
undeniably learning with speed and aplomb was a delight. Welding wasn't easy,
but it was _physical_, crafty work where the theory met the practical in a
bright point a foot in front of her nose.

At least, until she got overconfident. She returned to the Box at the end of
the session nursing a minor burn on her arm and with the end of her ponytail
blackened and frizzled, generally feeling like a fuck-up.

Xiu was home before her, and nearly dropped the vegetable steamer when she saw
the state of Allison's hair. "What happened?"

"Long hair and MIG welding don't mix so good." Allison ruefully flopped the
burnt ponytail over her shoulder and inspected it. She couldn't even see how
high the black bit in the middle went. "Maybe I should just cut it off."

"Oh, _Al!_" Xiu complained. "Your hair's lovely!"

"Bullshit," Allison smiled fondly and snatched a carrot stick from the
steamer, gave her a kiss on the cheek and dragged out the couch to sit on.
"I've never looked after it properly."

"And it's still… well, it _was_ nice…" Xiu corrected herself. She sighed, put
her cooking aside for the moment and took up position behind Allison to assess
the damage herself. "Oh, it's burnt right up to _here_…."

"Baby, it's just hair." Allison rolled her eyes.

"Still-"

"Ah, quit fussin' over it." Allison popped the carrot stick in her mouth and
crunched it. "I'll just cut it off, it'll grow back."

Xiu made an irked noise and began digging through one of the storage
cupboards, a lesser-used one near the floor. "No, I'll cut it."

"…Wait we seriously have hairdressing stuff in here?" Allison asked.

Xiu came back up with a pair of scissors, a comb, a salon cape and a spray
bottle. "Duh! We're training for two years in space, remember?" She tucked the
cape tight around her throat. "How were _you_ planning to cut it?"

"Uh…"

Xiu snorted and draped a towel over her shoulders too. "I should do Julian's
too, when he gets back…"

"He's out late tonight, remember? Training with the field astronomy
equipment."

"Right, yes…"

Allison grimaced as she got an earful of unpleasantly cold water mist. "So you
can speak three languages, you can cook, you can beat the shit out of bad
guys, you're learning to fly a spaceship and now it turns out you're a
hairdresser too," she listed. "Any other talents I should know about?"

"No, that's about it. But, uh, I did learn French and ASL in school."

"You're kidding?"

"Nuh-uh… I mean, I'm _really_ rusty in them, but… hmm…" Xiu made thoughtful
noises as she decided on how best to fix Allison's tonsorial mishap. "Anyway,
there was a deaf guy at school. We all learned some ASL to help him out."

"That was nice of you."

Xiu damped her hair a bit more, and finally settled on an idea, smiling
slightly. "Well, he was really cute, so…" she started cutting.

Allison laughed. "Right, right."

They sat in silence for a minute as fragments of wet hair dropped past her
ears.

Xiu broke the silence as she started combing and trimming the back of her
head. "…Um, Al?"

"Yeah?"

"Ever since you've told us about, um, your baby…" Allison turned her head
slightly, and just about managed to make out Xiu's apologetic expression in
the corner of her eye. "I mean… you've always been so tight-lipped about your
life…"

Allison smiled. "The baby was the big thing I didn't wanna talk about… I mean,
the rest of it's nothing crazy. Mom and Dad grounded me until I was eighteen
and started home-schooling but they kept giving me an allowance. I played a
lot of video games, made some friends online, and the day after my eighteenth
birthday I got on a Greyhound to Boston and left."

"Didn't they try and stop you?"

Allison just shrugged. "I did okay for myself really. Worked at a coffee shop
in the mornings and a garage in the evenings, got an LTC and a pistol, spent
my lunchtime down at the range. I was getting by just fine."

"Why Boston?"

"One of my guildmates lived there. Amanda. It was her garage, and she let me
crash on her couch until I could afford to rent my own place…"

"You've never mentioned her." Xiu pointed out.

"She was great! Real big on feminism, social issues and weed. She never did
like how much I loved my guns, though."

"Are you still in touch?"

Allison shook her head. "Lung cancer got her about three months before Trevni
and Nufr grabbed me," she said.

Xiu put the scissors and comb down and gave her a hug from behind, wrapping
her arms comfortably across Allison's chest. "I'm sorry…"

"It's okay. She was already fighting it when she helped me out, so we had
plenty of time to get used to it… Anyway, that's my story. Like I said, it's
not that interesting. I got all the stupid out of my system when I was
fifteen… space was _way_ more interesting."

"Interesting. Yeah. That's one word for it," Xiu commented.

"Yeah, I'm sorry you had such a shitty time of it, but me? I fetched up on a
freeport station and had a pretty good time of it, working security. Everyone
respected the big bad deathworlder." Allison grinned savagely at the memory.
"'When Kirk showed up with a ship full of people I knew I couldn't stay, but I
had a pretty good time, really."

"All done!" Xiu towelled her head briskly and gathered up the cape. Allison
ran her fingers through the new 'do, and grimaced.

"You took off a _lot_!"

Xiu smiled. "I had to. I think it suits you though," she suggested. She aimed
a nod at the bathroom door, a cue which Allison took with a resigned breath.

"Okay…"

When she checked the mirror she had to admit that Xiu had done an impressive
job. She'd been worried she was going to end up looking like an imminent
complaint to the manager, but the finished product, after she played around
with the parting a little, was a practical low-maintenance thing a bit too
long to be called a pixie cut and a bit too short to be classed as a bob.

A real fashionable hairdresser would probably have bit through their comb at
the sight of it, but Xiu was right - it suited her by neatly framing her
cheekbones and enhancing the overall diamond shape of her face.

"So…?" Xiu asked, hovering nervously.

Allison stopped examining it and gave her a reassuring peck on the lips. "I
like it."

Xiu relaxed and started tidying away the mess. "I wish I could be as laid back
about it as you are. That red decon thing…"

"Yeah, shaving it _all_ off would suck, but this is actually pretty cool!"

Xiu giggled. "You could say it's growing on you?"

Allison grabbed the pillow off the middle bunk and threw it at her. Grinning
cheekily, Xiu swiped it aside, only for it to knock the steamer off the
kitchen counter and spread peas and carrots all over the room.

There was a long, literally ringing silence as the steamer rolled to a
standstill.

"…Woops."

"…I'll sweep, you mop?"

"…Deal."

**Date Point 10y6m1w AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted system, Deep Space**

**_Kirk_**

"So what are your thoughts?"

Vedreg was proving yet again that, far from being stupid, he was a thoroughly
formidable intellect in his own right if given enough time to lumber up to
speed. Certainly he was proving more equal than Kirk to the task of
scrutinising the contraption that Lewis was painstakingly assembling and
iterating.

Annoyingly, his mood was still difficult to read, but Kirk didn't blame
himself or Vedreg for that. Where the Rrrrtk eye had two kinds of color-
receptive cell, the Guvnurag one outstripped even humans at _five_, and the
emotive bioluminescent lines on their flanks made full use of that chromatic
agility. It was like trying to hear music that was written partially outside
of his hearing range, or like trying to read a book where three fifths of the
words were printed in an ink that was only visible in the ultraviolet.

Kirk took a guess anyway and hazarded that his old friend was emoting a blend
of admiration and mild fear.

"Lewis Beverote is correct," Vedreg rumbled. "What he is making would be
devastating if turned to warlike ends."

Kirk walked around the holographic table that Vedreg was working at. They all
had their little demesnes inside the station now, though Vedreg's was by far
the most sprawling - a function of his sheer size more than anything else.
That and his unfolding passion for bakery, which had recently yielded fruit -
literally - in the form of an approximation of "cookies". Lewis had groused
something ungrateful about 'oatmeal and raisin', whatever _they_ were, but had
later thanked Vedreg profusely for the unexpected treat.

Right now, the table was busy dissecting the latest generation of what Lewis
was calling his _'Von Neumann Colony-in-a-Can'_ or the _'Coltainer'_ for
short. To Kirk's eye, it was an impenetrable tangle of interconnected systems
bolted onto something that looked like a hybrid between an enormous power core
system and the scoop field emitters off a lane-clearing ship, all feeding
power to a nanofactory that was equal in size and capacity to the one on
Mrwrki Station.

The Coltainer's actual function, as Lewis had described it, was to serve as a
deep-space automated probe that would search for habitable planets of classes
ten to thirteen. Upon discovering one, it would do everything within its power
to satisfy itself that the planet lacked native sophonts of any stage of
development and, once happy that the planet was not inhabited, it would survey
for and identify an ideal spot for a new colony to be built, based on a
complicated equation that took into account variables like clean water supply,
ocean access, arable land, grazing land, forestry, local geology and mineral
availability, climate, drainage, defensibility, proximity to _other_ suitable
locations and the feasibility of constructing roads between them, and more.

That done, it would mine some local asteroids or moons for raw materials,
build an exact duplicate of itself, send that duplicate on its way in search
of a new project, and then finally lay the groundwork for human colonization
by sending down drones that would simultaneously excavate and print a basic
colonial 'hub'.

The hub was a defensible structure in which the first settlers could live and
work before expanding outwards according to their own agenda. It would have a
power generator, a landing pad, a jump array, a kitchen and mess hall, gym and
recreational facilities, a chamber for democratic decision-making, enough
housing for fifty families, and even a number of deep basement levels designed
to serve as a nexus for subterranean roads or railways, complete with TBMs
already in place.

Finally, it would restock itself, dispatch a probe to Cimbrean containing the
transponder codes for the colony's jump array and orbital beacon, and depart
the system in search of a new project, dropping a system field as it went.

Kirk could easily see the unlimited military potential of a machine that smart
that could replicate itself exponentially.

"Does that… alarm you?" he asked.

"Sufficiently that I'm giving serious thought to vetoing the project entirely
and purging the files." Vedreg rumbled, something akin to rueful laughter.
"When I voiced my concerns to Lewis, he advised me to _'be Zen, man'_. He is
quite correct: I must ruminate on the matter before I decide."

"Quite right," Kirk agreed. "No disrespect, old friend, but your government's
hasty actions in the past-"

"-Are the reason we even have a human race to try and save," Vedreg
interrupted. He rumbled again and a pulse of ironic mottled pink ran up his
sides. "And of course, it may not have been panicking Guvnuragnaguvendrugun,
but panicking _Hierarchy_ who made that mistake."

The Domain language didn't have an equivalent to _'Touche'_, which was a
shame, but fortunately that particular human word could be _almost_
approximated by a Domain throat, and Kirk took the opportunity to use it.

Vedreg highlighted one of the denser parts of the project's anatomy.
"Fortunately, he has spent the last few days assuaging my concerns," he said.

"…What is that?" Kirk asked, leaning forward to study it.

"A bomb. An extremely large one, sufficient to vaporize the Coltainer."

"Programmed to detonate under what circumstances?" Kirk asked.

"Under any circumstances where it can't jump to safety instead," Vedreg
observed. "If it is attacked, if it is interfered with in any way… Lewis has
assured me that not even _he_, its creator, could tamper with one of these
once it is launched and active."

"Not even to shut it down if it went rogue?"

"To tamper with it would _be_ to shut it down, effectively. Explosively so. I
have stressed the need for caution in this project."

Kirk pondered the schematic. "Arguably of course, the Hunters wouldn't need to
tamper with it to see it replicating itself," he pointed out.

"I have said as much to Lewis. He was… intransigent. He feels that the
exponential growth of the coltainer system is essential."

Kirk snorted. "I have received some news that may cause him to re-think."

Vedreg rumbled at length before the translator finally delivered the
equivalent, which was equally perfunctory in both English and in Domain: "Oh?"

"Let me summon him."

Lewis ambled in some minutes after Kirk had called him, wearing his black
clothing today. Apparently he'd finally aborted his experiment in growing a
beard after a week of increasingly bitter grumbling about his own hair
follicles, and had shaved. Neither Kirk nor Vedreg were in a position to know
what a beard was supposed to look like in anything more than the academic
sense.

"News?" he asked, hopping lightly up onto the stool that Vedreg had kindly
installed for him.

"From Allied Extrasolar Command," Kirk informed him, feeling quite pleased
with himself. "Apparently they believe that the Hierarchy on Earth are now
neutralized."

Lewis took a high breath and sat back, with a smile spreading across him. "Oh
_man_. That takes a big fuckin' load of my mind. You think they're right?"

"Paranoia remains our best strategy," Kirk reminded him, "but… yes. I think
the news is genuine. Or if it is not, then we have already been hopelessly
outplayed."

"The plan ain't changed, then."

Kirk nodded. "It has, a little. I need a ship, Lewis. A fast one. Faster than
_Sanctuary_, if you can manage it without a Blackbox drive."

"You're gonna go meet them in person?"

"We cannot remain locked up here indefinitely." Vedreg observed. "You said it
yourself."

"Hey, just… y'know, bring some other humans in on this shit!" Lewis exclaimed.
"So long as I've got somebody fuckin' bipedal to talk to I'll be easy like
Sunday morning. If it can maybe be somebody who can help me on the Coltainers,
so much the better. Do you have _any idea_ what it's like having to learn
_everything_ from scratch for that shit?"

"I honestly do not think I could even begin to guess," Kirk admitted.

"Most humans couldn't, bro. Hell, I can't. I'm givin' it my best, but if it's
just my skinny ass workin' on it then we'll be done sometime around about,
oh…?" He looked around and then jerked his thumb towards the window,
indicating the huge red star they were orbiting. "When's that scheduled to go
bang?"

"You're exaggerating." Vedreg observed.

"Well, duh, yeah, 'course I am," Lewis nodded. "But still, I'm just one dude,
dude. There's gonna be like a fuckzillion things I never thought of with a
project this size. I _need_ help. And hey, maybe we can get you some actual
flour, sugar, chocolate chips and apples. And - sorry guys - some fucking
bacon because GOD. A man shouldn't go this long without bacon."

Kirk repressed the urge to grimace, and the green nauseated glimmer on
Vedreg's sides was a weak flutter as he fought down his own revulsion. They
both knew perfectly well that while nutrition spheres claimed to be
universally and perfectly nutritious, the reality was that they had been
designed for the needs of herbivorous non-deathworlders. The medical suite
that kept an eye on their general health had been reporting for some time now
that Lewis was slowly but steadily falling behind on his needs for Cobalamin,
Sulfur and Docosahexaenoic acid.

"I'll see what I can arrange," he promised. "There is one last matter…"

"Lemme guess. The von Neumann bit of these probes."

"The more I think about it, the more convinced I become that we should not
light that fire, Lewis."

Lewis hopped off the stool and went to pour himself a glass of water, without
replying. Kirk and Vedreg exchanged confused expressions as he did so.

"…Lewis?"

The human sighed. "Kirk, d'you really think I don't get it? I'm a smart dude.
A _really_ smart dude. One of the smartest, maybe. You think I don't
understand _exactly_ how big of a can'a worms I'm popping here? I've _read_
Alistair Reynolds, man. Greenfly, interstellar Grey Goo, you name it, I _know_
what the possible outcomes are."

"Then why-?"

"Because _some_ motherfucker is gonna do it eventually, so it may as well be
us!" Lewis knocked back a mouthful of water - a volume that would have
sustained Kirk for a day - and then a second, before clearing his throat and
continuing. "But the idea's already out there, man. I've seen the data lifts
from the Internet, I've seen human fiction being sold on space stations all
over the place, and that was _five years ago_. Von Neumann machines aren't
exactly a fuckin' secret."

"_That_ is the sum of your reasoning?" Kirk asked.

"Only way to beat exponential growth is to start first, dude. Get ahead of the
curve and stay there." Lewis shrugged. "To be brutally fuckin' honest, I have
no idea why the galaxy ain't already overrun with the damn things. Unless
they're one of the things the Hierarchy's kept a lid on."

"Or maybe nobody was ever so reckless as to launch them." Vedreg suggested.

"Riiight, 'cause interstellar civilization's a fuckin' _beacon_ of rational
decision-making." Lewis said, levelly and acidly.

"There is no need to-" Kirk tried to intervene, but Vedreg interrupted him.

"And _yours_ is?" he demanded.

"I'm sorry, of the two of us, _whose_ species is against the wall right now?"
Lewis asked. "If it's do something reckless or die, I for one choose
reckless."

Vedreg glowed crimson. "That is… only a deathworlder would think like that!
You don't have the right to make a decision that will permanently affect the
entire galaxy. None of us do."

"Choosing _not_ to has the same effect!" Lewis gesticulated madly, which had
the effect of launching his remaining half-cup of water across the room. It
bounced and skittered into the corner of the room and spun crazily on its axis
for a few seconds before finally rocking to a standstill. Lewis stared at it,
then took a cleansing breath and went to retrieve it. "…The idea's already
out, man," he repeated. "I ain't making the decision, it was made the moment
somebody uploaded Wikipedia to the galactic archives. So it's _gonna_ happen."

"You are certain of that?" Kirk asked.

"Completely. An' I figure… y'know, if we're about to kickstart the galactic
epoch of the self-replicating spaceship, we may as well do it by building one
whose primary mission is to declaw all the OTHER self-replicating spaceships
that are gonna follow."

"A vaccine for the whole galaxy." Vedreg mused.

"Dude. Project GALACTIC VACCINE, I like it."

Kirk inclined his head at Vedreg. "You are persuaded?" he asked.

Vedreg pulsed contrite teal and imitated a shrug. "I will need time to
consider… could the Coltainer project be modified to make suppressing other
Von Neumann machines its primary mission?"

Lewis shrugged. "Dude, the Coltainer project's still in, like, generation
zero. I dunno how you'd program a mission like that, but…"

"I shall raise it," Kirk told them briskly, "with Allied Extrasolar Defence."

"You will?" Lewis lit up. "You mean I'm finally gonna get some help?"

"If you are so determined to do this, Lewis, then yes, I will request some
help. Whether or not it is given will not be for me to decide."

Lewis nodded. "…I'll run up that ship for ya, then."

"Thank you."

"Whaddya want me to call it?"

"Pardon me?"

"Gotta have something for the reg code, dude. Whaddya want I should call it?"

Kirk spread his arms. "Choose for me," he said.

**Date Point 10y6m2w AV**  
**Starship** **_Racing Thunder,_** **Orbiting planet Gao**

**_Regaari_**

Regaari didn't know ships very well. His business was a medley of
intelligence-gathering and, when needed, of blood-on-the-claws interpersonal
violence. Starship combat was too detached to fire him up, though he had to
admit that he liked Clan One-Fang's philosophy on the matter.

The One-Fangs were one of Gao's youngest and, rapidly, one of Gao's most
distinguished Clans, holding as they did a near monopoly on spaceborne
military action. Naturally they were allied with the Whitecrests but the
tangled web of inter-Clan politics being what it was, One-Fang had aligned
with the Ironclaws and their asteroid-mining and exoplanetary spaceborne
industry, while Whitecrest were allies with the Ironclaws' chief rivals, the
Stonebacks.

Both of those two industrially-minded labor clans would be watching here. The
Ironclaws in particular had a lot to gain from good relations with the
Dominion. They were the ones producing the goods that got exported, after all.
The Stonebacks were dammers, bridgers, construction engineers and general
movers of soil. Their work was less exportable.

The _Racing Thunder_ was a product of the One-Fang - Ironclaw alliance, and it
was, in starship form, a Gaoian throwback: All claws and teeth and speed.

The privilege of flying _Tiritya_, the first Gaoian FTL ship, had gone to a
Firefang Brother named Shoru, and the Firefangs remained devotees of the art
of speed. Theirs was the other third of the alliance. Ironclaw provided the
ships, One-Fang crewed them, and Firefang piloted the fighters. It was all
guided by an interpretation of the requests and standing orders laid down by
the Dominion, who had specified what kinds of ship fit with their doctrine.

Neither the One-Fangs nor the Firefangs had objected - after all, the
Dominion's fleetmasters had infinitely more experience of space combat than
any Gaoian - but within those stipulations they had designed their ships to
reward a Gaoian's fighting instincts. They were fast, they were agile, and
they were savagely over-gunned.

Regaari approved. He also quite liked the shipfather, Officer Yefrig, who was
in many ways as un-Whitecrest as a Gaoian could be.

Whitecrests, for instance, were considered slightly effete by the other male
Clans because Whitecrests typically tried to avoid scars, whereas the One-
Fangs like many of the other more traditional warrior Clans actively
cultivated them. A proper One-Fang wore his scars like medals, and father
Yefrig in particular had a perforated right ear, the left ear was a blunt-
tipped stub, his right eye was a cybernetic replacement that looked just as
milky-white and blind as the original had been left (a neat touch that - all
the masculine gravitas of a blinded eye without the inconvenient loss of depth
perception) and there was a particularly impressive three-claw gouge on his
muzzle.

Regaari of course had an _actual_ medal. A circular one made of silver from
_Earth_ of all places, hung on a crimson ribbon with five narrow blue stripes
and bearing the effigy of a crowned human male. The "George Medal" it was
called, and while the medal itself was safely on display in Regaari's office
back at the Clan's enclave, he'd chosen to honor the award by wearing its
ribbon bar on the chest of the security harness that no self-respecting
Whitecrest went anywhere without. Not a Gaoan tradition, but of course the
award was not Gaoian either.

He could see Yefrig eyeing it. When the humans gave an award for "acts of
great bravery", it tended to make people take note, apparently.

He met the shipfather as wary equals - with a duck of the head and with paws
held wide and to show that their claws were in.

"I hope you have good news," he told Yefrig, by way of a greeting, "because I
think I've done as much as I reasonably can."

"It's been enough." Describing Yefrig as 'terse' was a minor understatement.
"We're ready."

"Excellent. I'm ready whenever you are, then."

Yefrig poured them both some _Talamay_ and indicated the bustle of the bridge
as his subordinate Brothers finished their preparations to go FTL. The ship
had been badly hurt by her exertions in getting to Gao as fast as they had,
and under the relentless pressure from the Dominion for her crew to be handed
over for trial, securing all the resources necessary for her repair had been
tricky and delicate. Unbeknownst to the One-Fangs, Regaari had even been
forced to arrange an exchange that was not, technically, entirely above-board.
Not _illegal_, that would have been ruinous to his reputation in the Clan. But
not completely honest, either.

"How will you be returning to Gao?" Yefrig asked, handing him a glass.

"Cimbrean needs a stronger Whitecrest presence now that some Females are
moving there," Regaari mused, accepting it. "I may linger for a little while."

This earned a gruff chitter from Yefrig. "Leave some for us!" he warned. "My
Brothers have low enough morale as it is, _without_ the added burden of an
urbane creature like you competing for the attention of Females."

Regaari returned the chitter and waved a conciliatory paw. "The humans have
asked me to meet with them to discuss military cooperation, in light of… well,
this." he indicated the ship. "After all, there's a permanent Clan enclave on
Cimbrean these days, and now that females are moving there…"

Yefrig duck-nodded. "It's almost our third colony."

"I wouldn't go that far," Regaari said. "I doubt the humans will share it
unconditionally. We wouldn't."

"You know them best," Yefrig replied.

"Shipfather?" a Brother approached the pair of them deferentially and handed
Yefrig a report.

Yefrig read it, then gave Regaari and encouraging nod. "We're ready."

"Outstanding," Regaari derived quiet amusement from using the term. He'd
learned from Warhorse that it had a very specific meaning in human military
circles, along the lines of 'progress made, but much too slowly' and allowed
the private joke to feed his good humor. It worked wonders, helping him
effortlessly generate an air of unthreatening affability.

Yefrig, naturally, didn't catch the joke and pricked his ears up pleased at
the apparent praise. "I'm glad you think so." He turned to the Brother and
rattled off a few terse commands in a densely jargoned Clan-specific dialect
that Regaari didn't understand. He took no offense: Whitecrest had a similar
argot of their own.

"Travel time to Cimbrean will be [six hours]." Yefrig reported, looking
understandably pleased with himself. The transport that Regaari had borrowed
for his last trip to Cimbrean, the _Springing Ember_ had needed three days to
make the voyage.

"So fast?!" he exclaimed. "I had no idea."

"This ship is called the **_Racing_** _Thunder_ for a reason." Yefrig allowed
himself a smug flick of his truncated ear. "Yours isn't the only clan to
borrow the idea of capacitor-based power systems from the humans, and not only
does this ship have plenty of room for them, but ours are better than theirs."

"I would hope so," Regaari agreed, amiably. Gaoians after all had earned FTL
travel and all its attendant technologies the hard way, through unassisted
research and innovation. He couldn't begrudge the humans for reverse-
engineering nonhuman artefacts, but the fact was that they were the least
technologically advanced species ever offered membership of the Dominion,
while Gaoians had been rather _more_ advanced than normal by the time
_Tiritya_ had first flown.

Gratifyingly, Gaoians were also not stupid enough to mistakenly conflate tech
with primitivity, unlike some other species he could name. By and large, the
Fathers of several clans were broadly thinking alike about humans and how
potentially useful they might be to the Gaoian people… or at least how it
would be desperately unwise of the Gaoian people to get on their bad side.

Hence this voyage.

The solution to Father Mavil's challenge had turned out to be relatively
straightforward. The Dominion would happily accept for the Gaoians to punish
the deserters themselves, and banishment was a punishment. The One-Fangs
wouldn't have been satisfied with a punishment, but they WERE happy to have
one of their ships assigned to the protection of Gaoian lives, provided that
the crew had any hope of earning Clan prestige and the attention of females.

Cimbrean was the natural choice. It was "uncontrolled territory" according to
the Dominion, and so any ship sent there under orders never to return was
exiled. That part was easy. With the human fleet being down one of their best
ships, and with their history of positive interaction with the _Racing
Thunder_ and its crew he had no reason to believe that they'd turn away the
help.

As for the females, well… Cimbrean had plenty of males already. Between the
Clan Starmind monastery and hundreds of Clanless in the Alien Quarter, Gaoians
were actually the planet's second-largest demographic. All it needed was for a
few brave pioneering Sisters to take the first step. If the Sisters in
question were pregnant, even better.

So, he'd called Myun.

Persuading her to move to Cimbrean had been simplicity itself. Quite aside
from the fact that she was so guilelessly in love with anything and everything
remotely human, it was effectively a free promotion for her. Myun's xenophilia
made her mildly unpopular despite her personal relationship with Yulna, which
was an obstacle to mobility in the celebocratic and taxocratic world of the
Clan of Females. Focused though she was, even Myun wasn't so obstinate as to
ignore that reality, nor so blase as to scoff at it.

She'd agreed to move, and where a pregnant Sister went, other Sisters would
follow, trusting in each other's maternal instincts and sense of safety.

Relocating to a new colony and installing herself as one of the founding
Sisters of the commune there would be excellent for her prestige, and she
hadn't needed much advice from Regaari to see that.

As for the _Racing Thunder_'s crew, they had a safe, legitimate haven, the
Dominion got their "justice", the Clan kept their Brothers alive and still
doing good work, Gao got effectively another colony via the power of
migration, and Regaari got both a victory over Father Mavil and an opportunity
to talk some more with Admiral Knight and Major Powell.

He excused himself from the bridge as the One-Fang crew made the final
preparations for departure. Not being Clan, he didn't have a nest-bed among
the crew quarters, and had to settle for curling up alone in a corner of one
of the cargo holds, surrounded by the provisions, technology and barter goods
that the _Racing Thunder_ had taken on to lubricate their negotiations with
the humans… or else to keep them supplied and comfortable in case the
deathworlders turned out to be less hospitable than Regaari had assured.

Solitude or not, sleep came easily. He hadn't been getting enough in the last
several days as he flitted from enclave to office to commune to ship to
briefing to meeting to private conversation to _occasionally_ being able to
return to his nest-bed and snatch some inadequate sleep in the company of his
Brothers. Despite their absence, he curled up, tucked his nose into his fur
and a One-Fang Brother came to wake him seven hours later without his noticing
the intervening time at all.

He could hear and feel that they were still at warp, not as a sound exactly
but as a sense that the ship was producing one that he couldn't quite hear.
Some texture in the air told him that an awful lot of energy was coursing
throughout its structure.

_"We are being intercepted,"_ Yefrig explained, over comms. "I've slowed us to
half a kilolight."

"Have they identified themselves yet?" Regaari asked, tugging on his harness
and scratching the backs of his ears to wake himself up.

"_Valiant_ and _Vendetta_," Yefrig replied. "A surprisingly small response…"

"Humans love jump drives," Regaari reminded him. "If we extend our claws, the
others will show up in an instant."

_"Understood."_

Regaari was halfway to the bridge when the ship jolted slightly and there was
a solid ringing noise.

"What was that?" he asked.

The One-Fang brother escorting him flicked an ear, amused. "A shuttle
landing," he said, and indicated a line on the ceiling which pointed the way
to the _Racing Thunder_'s small craft bay. Regaari duck-nodded and detoured
that way.

He wasn't disappointed. The detail of One-Fang security officers who were
welcoming the humans on board were shooting nervous glances at each other at
the sight of four SOR men disembarking from their shuttle in full EV-MASS,
among them the unmistakably hulking silhouette of Warhorse.

Regaari raised his paw in greeting and all four humans relaxed substantially.

"Yo, Dexter!" Titan called, being the closest.

"Hello, cousins." Regaari deployed the term carefully, and the One-Fangs
around him took note. "Cousin" had a specific meaning in modern Gaoian life,
referring to a Brotherly relationship between males who weren't actually Clan-
Brothers.

"Hey, this ship's a bit bigger'n the last one," Baseball sauntered over and
led him through the elaborate handshake they'd taught him. Quite why the
twinkly fingers at the end were important, Regaari wasn't sure - he suspected
that subtle human sense of humor was at play.

"One hundred and eighty-seven crew," Regaari informed him. "Not including me
and the forty females and cubs travelling in the forward cargo hold."

"Man, this is gonna take a while." Baseball sighed.

"Gonna need to talk to the cap- uh, the shipmaster, Dexter." Titan informed
him, walking over with some kind of equipment slung easily over his shoulder.
Several Brothers eyed the package nervously - it was easily more than any of
them could handle alone.

"I recognize that," Regaari pricked his ears up at it. "A portable jump
array?"

"Ship this size, a full customs inspection will go _way_ faster if we can
bring some marines over from _Valiant_ to help out, bro."

"…I'll call the Shipfather."

Titan nodded. "Lemme know when he's here."

"You can't miss him. He's got a white eye, a missing ear and more scars than
fingers," Regaari told him, quietly so that the One-Fangs couldn't hear. "And
if you want to make a good impression, compliment him on them."

"Thanks bro."

Yefrig, to his credit, listened to Regaari's advice and came down to the bay
himself. The humans paused in scanning the Brothers as Titan noticed the
scarred old One-Fang enter the space and loudly snapped "Detail, a-ten-SHUH!"

Again, the Brothers who didn't know humans were taken aback. All four men
stamped rigidly upright in their gear. It was an unmistakable gesture of
respect for Yefrig's authority, especially, when Titan's hand came up smartly
alongside the visor of his helmet.

Yefrig, of course, didn't know how to respond.

"It's customary to return the salute, shipfather," Regaari informed him,
gently. Yefrig inclined his head curiously, flicked his remaining ear, then
did his best to imitate Akiyama's salute. The humans unwound as soon as
Titan's hand had snapped down and he'd quietly ordered "as you were".

Formality complete, Titan shook Yefrig's paw. "Thank you for having us aboard
sir, this won't take but a little while."

"Is it necessary to search the _entire_ ship?" Yefrig asked.

"It is sir, yes. We have some marines on standby to come over from one of our
ships, with your permission…?"

Very subtly, Yefrig caught Regaari's eye, and got the most miniscule duck-nod
by way of encouragement. He imitated a human nod with rather more force. "Go
ahead."

"Thank you, sir. Horse! Base! Get the Array set up!"

The two Protectors jumped to, grabbing the hefty equipment and slotting it
together with practiced speed. Titan watched them at it. With his breathing
mask off, Regaari could see him smile, though he had the good sense to keep
his lips closed. The last thing jittery Brothers needed now was a show of
teeth.

"Man, those are some _wicked_ scars you got there," he observed.

This didn't quite have the desired result. Rather than preening slightly,
Yefrig's lone ear twisted sideways, perplexed. "Wicked?"

"Ah, translation problem," Titan waggled the device clipped to his MOLLE with
a wry smile. "Uh… impressive. You look like you earned every one."

It was subtle, but Regaari judged that Yefrig was preening slightly at the
observation. "I've never backed down from a challenge," he agreed. Titan
nodded, smiling faintly, and Regaari judged that the human knew he was now in
Yefrig's good graces.

"Well in that case sir, would you mind setting an example for your Brothers
and submitting to the contraband scan? Won't take but a second,"

"Very well. Though I don't see what contraband I could be…?" Yefrig trailed
off as Titan gently pressed a scanner to his head and watched it ping. To
Regaari's eyes the screen lit up a kind of bright yellowish-green, but he was
aware that humans had trichromatic vision versus a Gaoians dichromatic eyes,
and that the display on the back of the scanner was probably in a colour that
he couldn't see.

Whatever it was, Titan made careful note of the result. "Thank you sir."

There was a thump from behind them and the jump array pulsed into life. A
second later, a cuboid of black air resolved itself into a dozen human
marines. Their gear wasn't vacuum-proof and not a one of them was as
prodigiously huge as even the smallest SOR operator, but even Regaari, who
trusted the humans absolutely, found himself considering the fact that there
were now easily enough deathworlders on board to rip through every one of the
Gaoians almost without effort.

They were perfectly safe of course, but as the marines spread out and began a
thorough top-to-bottom inspection of the ship it was hard not to be reminded
of the discrepancy. The humans were being deferential, efficient and
professional, but there was just something about the way they _moved._ They
moved like pack predators, and even though Gaoians themselves were ambush
predators the difference was unsettling. Their teamwork was flawless, and
unconscious.

"What was that for?" Yefrig asked quietly, as Titan returned to his work.

Regaari watched as another of the Brothers was scanned in the head, and this
time the panel on the back of the device lit up a different shade.

"…Tell me, shipfather, do you have any cybernetics?" he asked.

"A translator and a communicator," Yefrig told him. "They're scanning for
cybernetics? Why?"

"Give me time, and I may have a theory for you."

**Date Point 10y6m2w1d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

"I'm telling you, _Tangled_ has the best songs!"

Xiu giggled and scraped her mixture of crushed garlic and chopped onions into
a pan to start frying. "It so doesn't! Yeah, they're good but they're not
like… Everybody can remember _The Lion King_'s songs, but nobody remembers the
ones from _Tangled_."

"Well they should!" Allison insisted, "'_When will my life begin'_? _'I've got
a dream'_? They're amazing!" She glanced conspiratorially around the room even
though they both knew they were alone. "…Julian tears up during _'I see the
light.'_"

Xiu put her knife down just in case she cut herself laughing "He _doesn't!?_"

Allison nodded with an impish smile as she finished putting the last of the
laundry away. "My right hand to God! He gets all misty-eyed when they're
singing in harmony."

Xiu made a conciliatory motion with her head. "Okay, yes, it's a beautiful
scene and that song's really good. But it's still not the _best_."

"Okay then, what _is_ the best?"

"Classic? I mean, I've still not seen any of the movies they did after I was
abducted…"

"Sure. Classic."

Xiu didn't even need to think about it. "Reflection."

Allison scoffed. "Of _course_ you'd choose one from _Mulan_."

"She was my hero!"

"I guess it's the nice thing about Disney that everyone gets _their_
princess…"

Xiu giggled, starting in on cutting the celery. "Actually, when I was very
little, I wanted to cosplay as Merida, but mama said I couldn't."

"Now why'd she do a thing like that?" Allison asked, sarcastically.

Xiu fought a losing battle to try and keep a straight face. "Beats me. Can
_you_ think of a reason why little Xiu Chang wasn't allowed to dress up as a
curly Scottish redhead?"

Allison made a performance of inspecting Xiu's hair, which on the rare
occasion she was able to let it down was a straight glossy curtain of black
that reached her knees. "I think I might have an idea…" she hinted, battling
with her own deadpan.

"Really?"

"Yeah. Blue isn't your color, babe."

Xiu _snrrk_ed and swept the celery into the pan to fry.

"Mulan and Merida," she mused. "Guess I like the warrior princesses, huh?"

"Come on, Rapunzel kicked just as much ass with a _frying pan_."

"She beat up _one guy!_ Mulan took on-!" Xiu caught Allison's trollish
expression and finally realised she was being teased. "Oh, okay. _You_ can
chop the tomatoes, then."

Allison laughed and did as she was bidden, though her fingers deliberately
brushed against Xiu's hand as she headed for the fridge. "Yes ma'am."

She seemed to have a knack for doing exactly what would get Xiu most
flustered. Blushing, Xiu turned away and washed her knife off, dried it and
slid it back into the block.

"How'd you do on that flight test?" Allison asked, deciding she'd had her fun
for now.

"Eighty-seven percent," Xiu answered. It was a solid pass, but she was
secretly a little disappointed - she'd been dead-set on a ninety or better.

"Aiming for higher, huh?"

Feeling completely transparent, Xiu sighed "…Yeah."

"Amen," Allison mused. She finished chopping the tomatoes and, at Xiu's
gestured urging, dumped them in the pan all over the sizzling onions and
garlic.

Being Allison she then just dumped the knife and cutting board into the sink
without washing them and leaned conversationally against the counter. Xiu just
smiled to herself, rolled her eyes and washed them for her.

"Same for you?" she asked.

Allison nodded. "I squeaked over the line on the computer systems module.
Eighty-two."

"My head just feels full of… fuzz and static," Xiu confided.

"Ugh, mine too. Some days I just-"

They were interrupted by the decontamination buzzer and the sound of Julian
removing his boots with uncharacteristic force. He crashed through the door
without a word, wrenched the couch angrily out of its hiding place in the wall
and collapsed onto it as if it had done him a personal injury.

Xiu fought down her fight-or-flight reflex. Even after all this time it was
still on a hair trigger, and Julian in a rage was genuinely scary. When he was
in a good mood, it was easy to forget that he'd _thrived_ on the very worst
the galaxy could throw at him, and that under his equanimous veneer he was a
killer and a survivor.

Then again, so was she.

Allison squatted down next to him and put a hand on his arm. "…Baby?" she
asked.

"I _completely_ fucked up." Julian groaned. He ran both hands up his face and
through his hair, and the brown envelope he was holding crinkled and creased
as he did so. "Wrecked the whole goddamn specimen. I only managed to salvage,
like, three samples."

Xiu glanced at Allison, and retrieved one of their precious supply of beers
from the fridge. Talking the mission team into letting them have _some_ supply
of alcohol along for the ride had been a tense negotiation, but the compromise
had finally been reached that they'd be allowed to take along enough for
special occasions and a rare treat. Julian hesitated when she offered it to
him, then sighed, nodded and accepted. He popped the screw top and drained a
third of the bottle in one go.

He settled back and breathed out most of his stress. "…Thanks."

"So you failed?" Allison asked, gently. While they had an allowance of test
failures each before it would negatively impact their bid to get on the ship,
there weren't many, and they were all far too competitive to be happy with
using even one of them.

Julian held up the brown envelope containing his test score. He hadn't
bothered to open it.

Xiu kissed his forehead and busied herself with the cooking as Allison
borrowed a knife and slit the envelope open.

"…Huh," she grunted. "Wow."

Julian groaned and covered his eyes. "How bad is it?"

"…Ninety-one."

"…_What?"_

"Ninety-one percent!" Allison brandished the printout. "Surprise equipment
malfunction test. Examiner's notes: _'Showed exceptional focus under pressure
and was able to recover three samples. Exemplary performance marred only by
slight hesitation at the moment the equipment failed, and by frustration over
factors outside of his control'._" She lowered it again, beaming. "You aced
it!"

Julian made the exact same 'huh' noise that she had, then looked at his beer.
"…Damn. Now I feel bad for wasting one of these."

"_Feihua!_" Xiu told him, then corrected herself. "Nonsense. That's your
celebration beer now, you hear?"

He went still for an instant, then shrugged and smiled. "Yes ma'am."

Despite his best efforts to help, neither of the girls let him - he was forced
to sit on the couch and finish his drink as Xiu threw together her improvised
lamb and tomato curry and Allison set the table, which would ordinarily have
been his job just because, as the tallest one, he had the easiest time getting
it down from its nest in the ceiling.

Sure enough, when Xiu skewered him with regards to his favorite Disney song
over dinner, he corroborated Allison's account.

"Yeah, I did. I dunno, it's just… something about that moment. You know?" He
sang a couple of bars, and once again Xiu was struck by just how good his
singing voice was. "_♪'And it's warm and real and right♫♪'_, that bit. It's
only, what, a few seconds long? But it gets me right here." He knocked on his
breastbone.

"I thought _Frozen_ was your favorite?" Xiu asked.

"It is, yeah, but Al's right that _Tangled_ has the better songs…"

Xiu snorted and tidied up so as to escape from Allison's smug expression.

She felt strangely as though their collective relationship was progressing via
some kind of a time warp. They were moving constantly forward and yet, once
they had moved, everything was familiar and comfortable as if they had always
been that way.

Nothing seemed to _change,_ exactly, in that there were no sudden revelations,
no sudden collapsing of barriers or giving-way of passions - things had just…
steadily become more comfortable. Mostly it was the little gestures, like the
way Julian put a hand on Xiu's hip when he leaned around her to steal a cheeky
morsel from the fridge, or how Allison's flirting still raised her pulse and
blush, but in a happy and confidence-boosting way. They all touched each other
a little more and a little more, smiled and joked more, and performed the
domestic ballet of keeping their living space tidy with increasingly efficient
unconscious teamwork. Little things had mounted up.

She fondly recalled the time that Allison gave her a deep, therapeutic massage
after Xiu came back sore and tired after a hard PT session, humming so softly
and so peacefully that it put her right to sleep. On another occasion, Xiu
gave Julian a coffee and a kiss as he struggled with his studies, then cuddled
up with Allison on the couch to watch cartoons. There was always fresh coffee
waiting for her when she returned from simulator sessions, and Allison had
promptly lodged a request with Ericson for a heating element in the towel rack
after Xiu made an off-hand comment about how the worst part of getting out of
the shower was the cold air.

Xiu's dreams didn't stop, though. Her ingrained habit of being a light sleeper
meant that every night was a surreal cinema reel in which childhood friends,
Gaoians, mystic symbolism, odd objects, sex, places both real and imagined and
an assortment of lurid contradictions acted out their incomprehensible scripts
on the back of her eyelids.

Mostly they were peaceful. Vivid and often disturbing, but peaceful.

Mostly.

**Date Point 10y6m2w1d AV**  
**HMS** **_Sharman_** **(HMNB Folctha), Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Admiral Sir Patrick Knight_**

Gaoians apparently enjoyed their tea sweet and milky. A brief experiment in
Earl Grey with a slice of lemon - Knight's personal tipple - had not ended
well, as it turned out that something about lemon just didn't agree with the
Gaoian palate.

Once Regaari and Shipfather Yefrig were both furnished with a civilized
beverage to hopefully lubricate the wheels of discussion, though, the
conversation began in earnest.

"You appreciate that I can't just take a nonhuman ship and integrate it into
the fleet," he said. "You have different doctrine, different weapons and
tactics, there are - forgive me - _rafts_ of security concerns involved…
Frankly you haven't delivered an exciting new addition to the fleet, you've
brought me a flying headache."

"The _Racing Thunder_" is technological generations ahead of your ships,"
Father Yefrig observed, clearly a touch offended. The translator certainly
thought so, giving him a tooth-grinding edge to his simulated English voice.

"My dear chap, I don't doubt that for a second," Knight placated him. "But if…
hmm…" he sipped his tea then hit on a useful analogy and put the cup down to
deliver it. "If what we need is a spear, then you have brought me an excellent
sword. For which I'm of course grateful, but…"

Yefrig settled, ear rotating sideways as he thought. "I understand."

"So the question is, what am I to do with you? You've formally requested
asylum; under our own rules _and_ those of the Dominion I'm obligated to at
least weigh the request… but in the longer term?"

"In the longer term," Regaari said, "an asset is an asset. _This_ asset wishes
to work with you. Please don't pretend that you couldn't use them."

Knight gave him a stern look. The Whitecrest was wearing his George Medal
ribbon bar and from what he knew of the chap, that was undoubtedly a
calculated move. Certainly his ears were up and forward, and his gaze level.
Challenging.

But of course, that decorated Gaoian who'd most likely saved the whole SOR had
implants in his head. There was a non-zero possibility that the entity he was
talking with today was no longer Regaari.

"I can't," Knight told him. "Not for the moment, anyway. For reasons that I
simply cannot go into, not with the two of you."

"What _can_ you do?" Yefrig asked.

"I can negotiate. I can discuss our options with my colleagues and superiors.
But I cannot and will not guarantee anything, gentlemen. You will simply have
to wait and see."

Bitterly disappointed though both Gaoians clearly were, they took it with good
grace. "May we at least send the females and civilians down?" Regaari
requested.

"I'll have Cimbrean Colonial Security notified," Knight told him, nodding.
"They can apply for visas and begin the immigration process. For now,
Shipfather, if you would please remain at anchor above Cimbrean Five…"

"Near the Dominion embassy?" Yefrig made a growling noise.

"…Its moon, then."

"As you wish, Fleetfather… ah, _admiral_." Yefrig corrected himself. Knight
smiled, quietly enjoying the title, and raised his fingers off his desk to
acknowledge the respect.

"If I could speak with Regaari alone, shipfather…?" he requested

Yefrig duck-nodded, finished his tea, stood and, after a moment's dithering,
ducked and bowed in what was presumably something similar to a Gaoian salute,
and departed.

That left Regaari, who was still watching Knight attentively.

"You've taken quite a liberty," Knight accused him. "Presumed on our time, our
resources, our manpower… Do you know how much it costs every time the SOR put
on their spacesuits?"

"I am _trying_ to forge an alliance," Regaari informed him. "Something I
understood you too were interested in."

Knight frowned. "And you thought that imposing on us might make us better-
disposed to such an alliance?"

Regaari angled his head slightly in a disarmingly canine gesture of
thoughtfulness, and then duck-nodded as if he'd reached a decision. "There
are… certain powerful Clan elements," he revealed, "who are interested in
pulling us closer to the Dominion. Fathers and the occasional Mother too who
stand to gain personally by dragging my people in what I think is the wrong
direction. _Your_ people by contrast have been more than gracious with us…
Gracious, in fact, to a fault."

"How so?"

"If your fleet had simply disabled the _Racing Thunder_ alongside the rest of
the Dominion ships at Perfection, we wouldn't be in the position of having to
exile a valuable and powerful ship and all its crew. Our relationship with the
Dominion would be effectively unchanged. _Now_, however, we are under
pressure, and those pro-Dominion elements have pounced."

"They would have been destroyed by the Hunters, and a hundred and eighty-seven
One-Fangs would be dead."

"In the big picture, sir, that's a disposable number. Commodore Caruthers may
have felt he was protecting human-Gaoian relations by leaving that ship
untouched. In practice, it may have been a mistake." Regaari scooted forward
on his chair so that his paws were touching the ground again - a much more
dignified posture. "That decision has… I believe your phrase is _'forced our
hand'_?"

Knight nodded.

Regaari put his empty teacup down and sat on the very edge of his seat. "Gao
is not in a position to defy the Interspecies Dominion. The sanctions or
punitive action would be… crippling. We _had_ to get rid of that ship. The
options before me were to bring it here and, yes, presume on your time,
resources and manpower… or to exile them in earnest."

Knight nodded. "And your pro-Dominion elements would have claimed a victory."

"The Dominion is stagnant, corrupt and stifling," Regaari said. "And badly
prejudiced against life-forms like you and I who are natural carnivores. We
_need_ an alternative, and humans are it." He growled slightly. "Worse, exiled
Gaoians have a history of going pirate. Some of the most successful and
dangerous pirate captains around are Gaoians, and all of _them_ came from much
less experienced stock than Father Yefrig, and started out with much inferior
ships. The _Racing Thunder_ is one of our best."

"Surely the Dominion won't be happy if we take that ship in…?"

"The Dominion is already not happy with you. You _must_ be aware of how
precarious your position is, Admiral."

Knight sat back and laced his fingers gently on his belly. "More than you
know," he acknowledged.

"Meanwhile, Gao is badly in need of a gentle push _away_ from the Dominion.
Your kindness and grace have put us both in a dangerous place, Admiral, but
it's a position we can turn to the good. I would never presume on your time,
resources and manpower unless I deemed it _absolutely necessary_, I promise
you that."

Knight gave him a long, calculating look, then exhaled and nodded. "I'll put
it to Allied Extrasolar Command that we should take them on as a deep-space
patrol and assign them to watching the nearby systems," he offered. "That,
realistically, is the best I can offer for now."

Regaari's ears came down and slightly sideways as he relaxed. "Thank you."

"Yes, well." Knight tidied some papers on his desk. "Please don't make a habit
of this."

"Of bringing you advanced warships with veteran crew?"

Knight couldn't help himself - he snorted a laugh. What he knew of Gaoian body
language made it clear that Regaari knew he'd won that point.

"I can see why your Fathers give you the difficult assignments," he said.
"You're trouble."

"Thank you, sir." Regaari stood, and pulled off an acceptably passable salute
considering that his shoulder wasn't entirely the right shape. Knight did him
the courtesy of returning it. "I'll be staying in the Alien Quarter if you
need me."

"For how long?" Knight asked.

"Until there is a ship to take me home."

**Date Point 10y6m2w1d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

_There is a hole in her parents' living room floor, which Xiu knows contains
something dangerous. When she approaches and sticks her hand in it, sharp
teeth bite off her arm._

_At least, that's what would happen if she did approach it. Instead she keeps
a wary distance. She steps outside, onto the open farmland in Minnesota.
Knowing what's coming, she looks up and watches the fireballs across the sky.
She can see forever, and wherever the weapons land they send up huge, fat,
slow mushroom clouds._

_She runs against the blast waves as they tear her long clothes out behind
her. She finds herself stuck in traffic, leaning desperately on the horn but
making no progress. When she gets out of the car to run the rest of the way,
the ground collapses underfoot._

_Down through an echoing dark cavern, falling along the beam of light she
created when she broke through, until she lands in what might be tar, or
quicksand. She reaches desperately for the light as a million hands close over
her, and a million teeth rip her, gnawing, biting, chewing, eating-_

Dream. Just a dream. She propped herself up on her elbows and willed her
panicked hyperventilating to slow.

"That sounded like a bad one."

Xiu rubbed her face and rolled over to look down on Julian. "…Yeah. Did I wake
you?"

He waved a reassuring hand. "We both sleep light, it's fine."

Xiu contemplated trying to sleep some more, then kicked her legs over the side
of her bunk and dropped noiselessly to the floor. She smiled at the sight of
Allison sound asleep, then stooped.

"Can I-?

He scooted to the back of his bunk. "Sure."

She rolled in next to him. Having never shared a bed with anybody before - the
_Sanctuary_ escape pod didn't count - it took some prompting and whispered
instructions before she was properly settled, with his left arm under her head
and his right resting across her waist, holding her close. But _once_ she was
settled…

She couldn't remember having ever felt so safe.

"Better?" He asked.

"Al won't mind, will she?"

Julian brushed her hair out of the way and kissed her behind the ear. "She'll
be delighted," He promised.

Xiu sighed happily, and listened to her instinct to wriggle into him some
more.

She woke up to, exactly as Julian had predicted, a delighted noise that was
half a squeal and half an "ooh!" As Allison discovered them in the morning.

"Oh, hey… Uh…"

"Don't you _dare_ apologize," Allison ordered. She flipped out of bed and
beamed at them. "You two look so cute together!"

Julian chuckled. At some point in the night, without her noticing, he'd
withdrawn his arm from under Xiu's head, and now he pushed himself up on it.
"Told you." He whispered into her ear. "Sleep well?"

"That's the best night of sleep I've had in… I don't know how long!" Xiu
realised, sitting up.

Allison, who had turned and was stripping for her morning shower, nodded
enthusiastically. "He's like a magic comfort blanket, isn't he?"

"Better," Xiu agreed. Julian was a blusher too sometimes, and as he finger-
combed his hair she shared a grin with Allison, who vanished into the
washroom.

He cleared his throat, wriggled out past her, then stood up and stretched. His
spine and shoulders made several loud popping sounds.

"…Are you okay?" Xiu asked.

"Male burden," He joked. "Big spoon, small bunk. I'll loosen up."

"We can't have that!" Xiu said. "Are you stiff and sore every time?"

Julian shrugged. "Worth it."

Xiu considered the bunk. "Are you sure?"

Julian twisted his waist, bent over to touch his fingertips to the opposite
toes, and then straightened with one final shimmy of his neck. "You know what
I wanna do?" He asked. "I wanna say, 'to Hell with the beds' and just make a
nest on the floor. They're too soft anyway."

"Ugh, I know what you mean," Xiu agreed. She'd grown almost used to sleeping
on hard metal floors during her exile. "They feel like you could fall through
them! And… yeah, that way all three of us could cuddle up."

"Oh, I see. You just want more magic comfort blanket."

"Duh!" She agreed with a laugh. "Especially if you don't get backache from
it."

"That _would_ be nice…" he agreed, then raised his voice. "Whaddya think, Al?"

Allison's voice was slightly muffled through the shower door as she called
back. "What?"

"Building a kind of cosy nest on the floor instead of these tiny bunks!"

The shower shut off. Allison slid the door aside and reached out for a towel.
"The floor?" she asked, drying her limbs.

"Yeah!" Xiu enthused. "It doesn't make sense that Julian has to get backache
and somebody gets left out…"

Allison frowned at him, as she dried her torso. "You get backache?" She asked.
"Why didn't you say anything?"

"Nothing a hot shower doesn't fix," He promised. "Still…"

"Well go on then!" She stepped aside for him. Julian chuckled and obeyed,
receiving a slap with the wet towel to his bare ass from Allison as he stepped
out of his shorts.

Allison grinned, and scrubbed at her hair. Xiu still felt that she'd done an
embarrassing butcher's job of that shorter cut, but there was no denying that
it needed far less maintenance.

"So.. what, just pull all the sheets and blankets down here and sleep?"

"It's soft enough," Xiu pointed out. She stood up and started making the beds.

"I guess it can't hurt to try…" Allison sounded dubious, poking at the floor -
which after all was only as 'soft' as a gym mat - with her toe. "…okay, We'll
try it tonight!"

"You don't mind?"

"Why would I _mind_ cuddling up to my two favorite people, dummy?" Allison
asked, affectionately. "Ooh! Do I get to be in the middle?"

"Well… I kinda wanted to…"

Xiu trailed off at the extravagant pout on Allison's face, rolled her eyes and
raised a fist. Beaming, Allison raised hers and they silently counted out
three beats. Xiu threw scissors, and Allison went for paper.

"Shit!" Allison threw her head back. "Best of three?"

_"No."_ Xiu asserted, laughing. "Go put some clothes on!"

Allison giggled and headed for her wardrobe. "Yes ma'am…" she sing-songed

"Good girl!" Xiu called after her, using the same cadence. She wriggled out of
her own clothes as Julian finished his shower and stepped out to grab a towel
for himself, shaking the water out of his prosthetic. She slipped past him
almost before he was out of it and turned the shower back on before the water
could go cold.

Normally, she was last in because she liked to luxuriate under it, but this
time she spun through, soaked, soaped and rinsed in record time, eager to
start the day.

The sooner it was started, after all, the sooner it was done, and she could
try the joys of _two_ magic comfort blankets.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, the Far Reaches**

**_Gabriel Ares_**

"So how are you settling in at the new workplace?"

Ava smiled and grabbed a handful of cutlery from the drawer to set the
breakfast table. Since her return from Earth, she'd clearly and obviously
relaxed and become happier. The haunted, sorrowful look that had darkened her
expression for months now was finally going away, and her smile was coming
back, which was lifting Gabe's spirits in ways he couldn't really describe.
Adopted be damned, he loved Ava like she was his actual flesh-and-blood
daughter, and no parent liked to helplessly watch their child go through hard
times.

The fact that she and Adam seemed to be back on speaking terms, strained
though they were, was even more cause for celebration. He regretted their
breakup and bitterly wished he could have done more to stop it, but there came
a time when a parent just had to get out of the way and let his kids be
idiots.

Having them round for weekend breakfast on a regular basis was a treat for
Gabe, too. Adam had loyally worked out how to fit a weekly bacon-and-eggs
fried breakfast into his macronutrients, and if there had been a hint of
wanting to avoid Ava for a while… well, to his credit he'd been big enough to
get over it. And so had Ava, for that matter.

He wasn't allowed to help, though. He was so huge nowadays that he was under
strict orders to sit at the table, on the grounds that it was the only way for
him to stay out of the way.

"It's pretty good!" Ava said. "We're all impatient to start putting articles
out though. The website's taking _forever_."

"I suppose a whole new media network doesn't just pop into existence
overnight," Jess observed. She loved their Saturday breakfasts - it was a lazy
day for all three of them, and Gabe could cook it at his own limping pace,
which was his way of thanking her for the blitzing, busy breakfasts she put
together during the working week. It was that kind of happy give-and-take that
was making their marriage work beautifully. Their worst argument ever had been
over the orientation of the toilet paper. Gabe _still_ didn't know how a sane
woman could tolerate having the roll the wrong way round, but he'd given up
trying to persuade her and just settled for flipping it as needed.

"Mm-hmm!" Ava deftly spun a fork round her finger before putting it down. "I'm
still trying to decide if I want to focus on Security or Extraterrestrial
Affairs."

"You've got the contacts for security…" Adam mused.

"I'm not sure I'd want to interview either of you," Ava shrugged, before Gabe
could reply.

"Why not? And…why would you interview me?"

Ava rolled her eyes. "You're right, why _would_ a journalist who's just
starting to make a name for herself want to interview one of the Beef
Brothers?"

Adam snorted at that, but it was an amused snort. He was still an essentially
shy guy at heart, and mentioning the way that the Internet had fallen in love
with him and Baseball as they escorted Earth's first official extraterrestrial
visitors was a sure way to make him go slightly red in the ears.

"But… I mean, I guess it's just not a good idea to interview your family," Ava
continued. "And the SOR don't like me at all."

"Sounds like the decision's made, then, surely?" Jess asked, heading off
Adam's reply.

Ava sighed. "Yeah…"

"But security's what you really _want_ to cover, isn't it," Gabriel observed.
He got a small smile for that.

"Yeah… but I guess ET Affairs probably has a big overlap, with the Hunters
and, uh, all the rest of it…"

Gabe resisted the urge to grimace. He'd had a long and tense conversation with
Admiral Knight over the fact that _both_ his kids had been put in harm's way
in Egypt. Knight had been as reasonable and agreeable as always, but his
apology had been for the necessity of it, not for the decision itself.

After reviewing the debrief on EMPTY BELL for himself, Gabe had been forced to
agree that it was necessary, but he was damned if he'd ever be happy about it.
He hadn't yet had the chance to discuss it with either of them: with Jess
around, classified matters were off limits, and he got the impression that Ava
wanted to put the whole affair behind her anyway.

He settled for chuckling weakly. "Well, if you want to combine them, interview
me about Gaoians sometime," he offered. "They're CCS' most regular customers."

Ava mulled that one over. "Hmm. Could be a good angle. The challenge of
reconciling alien morality with human laws…"

"Regaari's here right now," Adam offered. "He'd have some interesting stuff to
say."

"Isn't he your friend? You wouldn't mind?"

"Trust me, he'd prolly thank me for arranging it."

"Hmm…" Ava finished setting the table and sat down so as to stay out of the
way. "And the rest of the guys? I kinda wanna stay in their good graces as
best I can…"

Adam _'pff_'ed and poured himself an orange juice. "Stay?"

"Ohhh, no. Stop that," Jess warned him, putting the finishing touches on the
French press coffee. "That wasn't nice, Adam."

"…You're right. Sorry Ava."

"_No se preocupe._ You're right."

"Regaari's would be an interesting perspective on these duels that cause us so
much trouble," Gabe suggested, carefully transferring the toast onto their
plates as well as dragging the conversation back on course."

"Are they really that endemic?" Ava asked.

"Every day there's _some_ incident, and we only have a few hundred Gaoians,"
Gabe replied, parting out the scrambled eggs. "As far as they're concerned
it's perfectly acceptable and normal, as far as we're concerned it's
aggravated assault. Not that we can ever make the charges stick."

"If it's their culture, though-"

"_Me vale madre por su cultura._" Gabriel grumbled, serving the bacon. "They
can act however they like on a Gaoian planet, but so long as they're in _my_
jurisdiction… And the same goes for humans, too. Culture be damned, if you
come to Cimbrean, you live by Cimbrean's laws. Our house, our rules."

Jess and Adam both nodded emphatically. For her part, Ava gave his words a
moment's consideration before nodding. "I guess," she agreed.

"It's not about saying they can't be who they are," Gabe clarified. "It's
about saying, _'this is who_ **_we_** _are'_, right? These are the things that
matter to us, these are _our_ values. And if we're not willing to stand up for
those values…"

This time Ava's nod was more solid. "Then who are we?"

"Exactly." Gabe served the sausages, tomatoes and mushrooms and Jess helped
him transfer the four plates - one noticeably more laden than the other three
- to the table. It was very much a British style breakfast, but Jess had won
him over to the dark side. He was damned if he was going to let her convert
him to black pudding, though, a sentiment apparently shared by Ava but _not_
by Adam, who couldn't seem to get enough of the stuff.

"You're getting political, darling," Jess noted.

"Sorry. I just worry one of these days one of my officers is going to lose an
eye. Gaoians may not be deathworlders, but those claws are sharp."

"What about the females?" Ava suggested. "Now that they're here, maybe you
could ask them to help you?"

Gabe inclined his head thoughtfully as he sat down "…Hmm…"

Ava smiled, then lowered her head. Jess and Adam sat back and let them say
grace silently, before they tucked in.

"…Talking to the females could work," Gabe admitted, after a few silent
minutes of appreciative gourmandizing, when half his plate was eaten.
"Possibly. Though, one of the new females fancies herself a warrior. The
commune's not even built yet and she's already gone to the _Thing_ requesting
a change in the weapon licensing laws."

"A warrior? What kind of a change does she want?"

"She's a _'commune guard'_. Apparently it's her job to keep unwanted males
from harassing the females and cubs. She's eligible for a security license,
which would cover her to carry a gun or a taser, but she wants the license
expanded to include fusion swords." Gabe cleared his throat.

"A _sword_? A Gaoian with a sword?" Adam laughed.

"Yeah, she's a fierce one. A real mama bear."

"Maybe you should interview _her_," Jess suggested.

"I think so!" Ava agreed, fighting to keep her amused expression down to a
mere wide smile. "She sounds like a firecracker."

"Well, her name's Myun. She should be easy enough to find." Gabe told her.
"_Try_ not to create tension, _mija_."

"Wait, _Myun_?" Adam asked, "Dexter was tellin' me about her. Her first cub is
his."

"That so? …Dexter is Regaari?" Gabriel asked. When Adam nodded, he had to ask
further. "Why Dexter?"

"Because of his left hand. Paw. Whatever."

"Anyway: Just the facts, dad, I promise," Ava reassured him. "That's what we
want this to be all about."

"Isn't _'Just the Facts'_ Byron Media's thing?"

"That's their _slogan_…" Ava shrugged. "But Carl - that's our political editor
- he thinks it's all about public image with the Group."

"Moses Byron is a very clever man who wants to be remembered as one of the
good guys," Jess opined.

"Exactly. So everything they publish is about making the Group look better.
Our mission statement is the _truth_, no matter what the truth may be."

"That's a mission that might get you buried," Gabe warned her. "People aren't
rational and they don't always like or want the truth."

Ava shrugged. "What's the worst that can happen?" she asked.

"…Nothing you can't handle, I suppose," Jess mused.

"I hope so," Ava agreed. "We'll just have to go for it and see. But don't
worry, I'm not going to stir up trouble. It's all going to be about letting
the ETs describe themselves and us in their own words."

"Gaoians are a good start," Gabe told her. "They're generally well-disposed to
us. You should get some opinions out of them that'll make readers smile."

"What about the others?"

"The Vizkittik. Are the most… cautious. They'll probably give you some more,
uh… less inspiring interviews. The Kwmbwrw are outright hostile to us, and in
fact I think the handful we had are planning to emigrate now that more Gaoians
are arriving. I think there's a family of Locayl and a Qinis tailor…"

"I guess I'll just get the bioscreen and a pass to the alien quarter, see if I
can do some old-school, candid street voices stuff," Ava decided.

"Could you see if you can get a piece on education in the alien quarter?" Jess
asked. "I want to see how they compare to our own schooling."

Ava held up her hands. "Please! I'm the new girl! I can only do so much! I can
come up with any story I like, but what we actually publish is up to the
editors."

"It's for my own interest, really," Jess said. "I've got… well, a bit of a
problem case. I suppose I was just hoping maybe the aliens have figured out
how to deal with some of the things I haven't."

"When it comes to humans? I doubt it," Gabriel muttered.

"Mm." Jes nodded sadly and finished her coffee.

"Is there anything I could do, maybe?" Adam offered. "Admiral Knight's been
pushing for more community outreach. We're supposed to look for chances to
help people out…"

"Maybe. I'm… a little reluctant to involve either of you directly."

"Why?" Ava asked.

"Because… well, it's Jack Tisdale."

Ava and Adam both nodded understanding and glanced at one another. Gabe knew
that neither of them had managed to re-engage with Jack since the Tisdale
family's return to Cimbrean, which was a shame. He should have been their last
link to his late sister, Sara, and they should have been the same for him… but
it hadn't happened.

"Lemme guess," Adam said, quietly. "He's getting into fights? Giving you
attitude?"

"I don't blame him," Jess hastened to say. "He lost his sister and fourteen's
a tricky age anyway. But he keeps picking fights with bigger and older boys,
and bless them they're pretty good about it, but he's going to get hurt if
somebody doesn't turn him around, and I've… well, I've done everything that I
can." She shrugged helplessly. "There's only so far a teacher can go."

Adam nodded. "I'll talk with him when I… I tell you what, next time he gets in
a fight, give him some alone time and call for me, I'll come down if I can."

"Are you sure? I don't want to put you-"

"It's no problem, I promise," Adam interrupted, kindly.

Jess sighed. "…Thank you, Adam."

"_De nada._ I hope I can do something for him."

Ava's smartwatch made a pinging sound, and a second after checking it she
smiled hugely. "Oh hey! The website's going up!"

"You'd better get into the office then," Gabe told her.

"Uh-huh. We're in for a busy couple of weeks… I'll see you next Saturday?"

"Of course!" Jess gave her a hug and they shared a couple of familial cheek-
kisses. "Always!"

Gabe was given similar treatment, and Adam got a hug _sans_ the kiss, but it
was still a big improvement on the first few awkward, strained breakfasts.

"I'll wash up," he said, looming upright and squeezing past into the kitchen.
This was the easy job, seeing as Jess had insisted on a dishwasher.

Gabe was left to finish his coffee and sit back, feeling a good deal more
relaxed and happy than he had in some months.

On the whole, life was going okay.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

There was no longer such a thing as a day off in The Box - after all, they
wouldn't get days off on the ship once it was in flight - but weekends were
half days, with the afternoons and evenings there for relaxing and personal
improvement. Unscheduled drills aside, they were usually pretty relaxing.

Inevitably, however, life in their tiny shared space wasn't all paradise. The
warning from their evaluators had been right - close proximity and little
privacy unavoidably led to friction.

Mostly, it was little things. Even on her best behaviour and with tidying up
after themselves being part of their routine three times a day, Allison still
had an insuppressible slovenly streak. She tended to just leave her clothes
where they fell whenever she undressed, rather than putting them in a laundry
hamper that was at most ten feet away. She _never_ made her bed, she just
_would not_ do the washing up properly and thoroughly, and she seemed to
suffer no embarrassment at all from releasing the occasional cavernous fart,
though a minor adjustment to their diet largely resolved that problem.

Julian meanwhile was… well, Xiu's complaints about Julian were less
reasonable, really. How could she fairly complain about her boyfriend being
_conscientious?_ Except that he was conscientious to a fault, constantly
checking she was okay, trying to cheer her up if she was anything less than
perfectly perky. If she was in the mood for it, his concern for her state of
mind was touching. If she wasn't - which was more common - she felt like he
thought she was made of glass and cobwebs, ready to shatter and tear at the
slightest wave of a hand.

He and Allison weren't immune to spats and minor fights, either. There was
never a raised voice between them, nor did it ever end in anything other than
a reassuring kiss and reconciliation, but more days than not involved a minute
or two _somewhere_ when the energy between the two of them became strained.

Xiu stepped in one time when they were bickering about, as far as she could
tell, nothing much at all. Allison had informed him of something mundane like
that she'd refilled the liquid soap in the shower, he - being engrossed in a
book about the history of naturalism and taxonomy - had grunted a distracted
acknowledgement, she'd followed-up by informing him of which scent of soap
she'd chosen and he had quite abruptly pointed out that he was reading.

This had resulted in a tense ten minutes, but the moment Xiu had meekly asked
if they were okay, they'd both dropped everything to reassure her that they
were absolutely fine and had all but tripped over in apologising to one
another.

Later, Allison had opined that minor moments of tension were normal and
healthy in a relationship. "After all," she'd said, "we wouldn't get upset if
we didn't give a fuck."

Xiu tried to bear that in mind. For the most part it worked - she found it in
her to start rolling her eyes and throwing Allison's used shirts in the
laundry with a smile rather than a frown. She gently confronted Julian and
explained that constantly checking on her actually _undermined_ her confidence
and mood more often than not. He'd done a pretty good job of toning it down
after that.

The real boulder in the road was sex. The revelation that Allison and Julian
were permanently stuck on third base was a surprising one.

She and Julian talked about it when they had a rare moment alone together
while Allison was out a little later than was usual on a Saturday, taking a
couple of tests. Their studies and training for the day were all done, they'd
finished the chores, and they were sitting on the couch just talking when that
particular nugget of information came to her attention.

"So, you guys have _really_ never gone the whole way?"

"It's the baby thing." Julian grumbled. "I mean, that rule's been there right
from the start with us. I guess I shoulda put together what happened with her
before that Keating guy dragged it out of her…"

"But… I mean, we both got those implants and you had that, um, that
injection…"

Long-term contraception had turned out to be part of the contract. Both the
girls now had intramuscular contraceptive implants and Julian had suffered the
rather less dignified solution of a vas-occlusive contraceptive injection. In
theory, the injection of a sterile occluding foam into his vasa deferentia
that would disintegrate naturally in three years, or which could be easily
dissolved before then if he wanted, was supposed to be a quick, painless and
uncomplicated solution to male contraception.

In practice, he'd spent a day or two walking and sitting in slightly funny
ways, and constantly adjusting himself for comfort with a pained expression.

"Yup. 100% no chance of accidental babies whatsoever, and she's still…" Julian
sighed, and scowled at himself. "I mean, I _know_ it's her choice and if she
says she's closed for business then nobody else gets a vote. It's just…"

Xiu nodded. "And she keeps hinting about you and me, um…" she tried to fight
back her blush, which of course just made it worse.

"See, I don't mind that." Julian said. "You're not ready yet, full stop.
You're not, uh, teasing me with going nearly the whole way and then stopping
short, you know?"

"Right! But it really bugs me that she keeps pushing me, when she's got this
big hangup of her own…"

They nodded together and lapsed into thoughtful silence, which Julian broke a
minute or two later.

"Should we… be talking about this without her here?" He asked.

"Shouldn't we?" Xiu asked.

"I dunno, are we maybe talking behind her back? That doesn't seem right…"

He had a point. "Maybe…" Xiu conceded. "You're right. I guess I'd be kind of
upset if I found out you two had been complaining about me without me…"

Julian gave a shifty clear of the throat. "Agh. Right… Sorry."

"…You _have?"_

He raised his hands. "Not like anything _major._ just…"

"Julian!"

"I'm sorry!" He cleared his throat. "Okay, new rule, no two of us talk about
the third when they're not around"

"I think so!" She agreed.

She relented when Julian shrank a little, looking so much like a kicked puppy
it was impossible to stay mad. She leaned over and kissed him. "…Sorry."

He spread his arms and she scooted over to lie on his chest. He stroked her
hair and kissed the top of her head.

"…So I managed to irritate you guys?" She asked, after a while.

"Not really. Nothing important." He promised.

"What was it about?"

He laugh-sighed. "You're just gonna worry if I don't tell you, aren't you?"
When she nodded against him, he nodded too and drew a thoughtful breath
through his teeth. "Al was… it was about sparring practice. She felt you
weren't letting her progress fast enough."

"She's progressing really fast anyway!" Xiu looked up.

"Yeah, but you know how she is. She doesn't slow down or relent, does she?"

"Ugh, yeah." Xiu frowned. "Sometimes I just wanna tell her to…" she caught
herself. "Wait, we're complaining about her again."

"Ah, shit…" Julian rubbed his scalp with the heel of his hand. "That's harder
in practice than in theory, isn't it?"

"Well, what was your complaint about me?"

"I don't have one."

"Oh come on," she pushed herself upright. "There's got to be _something_ I do
that annoys you."

"Only when you're being insecure," he said, and smiled cheekily. "Like right
now."

"Sorry…"

He put his thumb and index finger under her chin and lifted her for a kiss.
"We're all fine," he promised.

Reassured, Xiu snuggled down on his chest again.

_She must have dozed off because she knows she's dreaming. She's on a grassy
mountainside, overlooking a canyon-spanning steel bridge on a bright sunny
day._

_A dirt bike blitzes past from behind her and out over the bridge, bouncing
over the ramps and wooden boards that have been laid on it - Motocross at
altitude. As she watches, the rider makes a mistake, over-corrects, wobbles
and the next ramp throws them high into the air to fall off the bridge and
into the canyon._

_Perspective shifts. Now she's the rider, and she leaps off the bike with a
whoop, pulling the cord on her parachute. She takes hold of the steering lines
and aims herself down the mountainside. Trees, snow, grass and animals flash
by below as she perfectly calculates the angle of descent, thrillingly close
to disaster but never crashing. It's the next best thing to flying._

Both of them woke with a small jump when the door opened. Allison threw her
jacket onto the coat hooks, and waved to them. "Hey, lovers."

"Hey!" Julian sat up.

Xiu stretched and checked the wall clock. They had napped for nearly an hour.
Not surprising really, considering how permanently tired they all were from
the constant education and training. "Hey…"

Allison hit the fridge and grabbed the orange juice. "Did I wake you?"

"Guess you did…" Julian agreed. "Hey, Al, we've kinda come up with a new
relationship rule."

She turned, pouring a glass. "Yeah?"

Xiu nodded. "We were thinking it's a bad idea if two of us talk about the
third when they're not present."

Allison blinked at them. "Did I do something to piss you off?"

"No, no. Not… nothing like that." Julian said. "I was just… we were talking
about the whole third-base only thing."

"And I was saying you've been making me a bit uncomfortable lately, hinting
about… you know, when I'm gonna be ready." Xiu added.

Allison put the orange juice back in the fridge, slammed back the glass in one
go and put it down. "_'Hi, Al! How was your day?'_" she asked, exuding brittle
sarcastic cheer.

"Come on, don't be like that-" Julian protested, but Allison folded her arms.

"Be like what?" She asked. "I've had a shitty day! I came _this close_ to
fucking up that bend test I've been stressing about all week, I've got a head
full of system integration jargon that I barely understand, and then the
second I'm home, my boyfriend and my girlfriend _gang up_ on me!"

She sighed, picked up her glass and took it to the sink to rinse it. "I'm
sorry if I upset you, guys, but couldn't this have _waited?_ Let me get home
and rest up a bit first?"

Xiu and Julian looked at each other awkwardly.

"New rule?" Xiu suggested.

"No ganging up." Julian agreed.

Al leaned against the sink and tucked her thumbs into her belt loops. "Good
rule." She observed, testily.

"…Sorry Allison." Xiu offered, while Julian nodded apologetically with her.

"It's okay, it's fine-" Allison waved a hand and exhaled. "You just managed to
put the cherry on a shitty day cake, you know?"

"Sorry." Xiu repeated herself. Allison smiled forgivingly, stepped forward,
turned and threw herself over the couch's arm to land with her head in Xiu's
lap.

"Hey, Julian?" She called.

"Yeah?"

"I know it's my turn to cook, but I could _really_ go for one of your steaks
tonight…"

He chuckled and stood up. "Okay, I can do that."

As he headed for the freezer to grab a couple of steaks for defrosting, Xiu
gently ran her nails across Allison's scalp. "That bad?"

Allison closed her eyes, enjoying the sensation. "You and a piece of steel
have a lot in common," she said. When Xiu paused, confused, she opened her
eyes again and explained. "I can't bullshit either of you. Either I'm welding
it right or it breaks. Either my stance is right, or you correct me. It's…
frustrating."

Xiu gave her a quick reassuring kiss. "You're doing great," she promised.

It occurred to her after the fact that it was the first time she'd actually
kissed Allison, rather than being kissed by her. Al certainly didn't fail to
notice - she smiled hugely and relaxed. "Mm… Thanks," she whispered. "I needed
that."

"More head scritchies?" Xiu offered.

"…Please…"

Xiu obliged, and, on a whim, whispered something for Allison alone to hear.
_"Wǒ ai nǐ."_

Allison stretched like a sleepy kitten. "Mmm… I dunno what that meant, but it
sounded good."

Xiu smiled. "It was," she promised.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**Michael Foale High School, Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**

Despite being a headteacher in charge of a few hundred pupils rather than the
homeroom tutor in charge of just a handful as she'd been when Adam had been in
her class, Jess had never got around to selecting a different look for the
workplace. Long skirt, black cardigan, red scarf. It was her working uniform,
and so iconic that whenever the kids wanted to poke affectionate fun at her,
they never needed to work hard at it.

Possibly that was why Jess had stuck with the distinctive look. She had a
policy of not taking herself too seriously at work, though she took the _work_
very seriously indeed.

"Thanks for doing this, Adam."

"Like I said, _de nada_. I hope I can help…"

Used as he was to the narrow hallways and corridors of HMS _Sharman_'s
administrative building, Adam was still feeling self-consciously huge as he
followed his stepmom. Everything was just a little low, teenager-height or
lower, and next to Jess' slim, avian figure he was well aware that he cut a
near-freakish figure.

He tried not to let it bother him when two wide-eyed girls in the school's
uniform of a light powder-blue polo shirt with a grey sweater stood aside to
let them past, and then dashed away laughing and whispering to each other.

Jack Tisdale was lounging around in an empty classrom with his feet up on a
desk, radiating dishevelled contempt for frivolities like the uniform. He'd
found a tennis ball somewhere, and was bouncing it off the wall when they
entered. Jess just sighed and confiscated it, even as Jack straightened up and
adjusted his clothes, aware that something different was going on.

"…I'll leave you two to talk," Jess said, and made herself scarce.

Adam would have liked to sit down, but he was innately wary of furniture
nowadays. None of the plastic seats were either large or strong enough. He
settled for leaning against the door and folding his arms.

Jack stared at him for several long minutes. "…Jesus, Adam," he declared at
last. "Ava said you got big, but…"

"Yeah."

"…Why are you here?"

Adam tilted his head. "To help out a friend."

"Oh, what, Jess needs your help with the naughty kid?" Jack made a frustrated
noise and stood up. He only _looked_ rail-thin, Adam realised. On closer
inspection he was carrying some respectable muscle definition on that skinny
frame. It was doubtful he'd ever be strong, but he was certainly not as weak
as a first glance might suggest. But he wasn't strong either, as the scabbed
wounds on his lip and eyebrow attested.

"Jess isn't my friend, man. She's my step-mom."

"…We hardly know each other, we're not friends." Jack snapped, dismissively.

"Bullshit."

Before Jack could reply, he'd been grabbed and pulled irresistibly into an
Adam Ares Trademarked Hug. Not even Baseball could escape those.

"Get off! Get… Leggo! Got _off_ me you big-Aagh!" Jack squirmed, fought,
pushed, twisted and at one stage Adam guessed he maybe even tried biting.

Then he went still.

Then, very slowly, he hugged back.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**Allison Buehler**

The treadmill in their living space was, cleverly, part of the couch. A hidden
catch on the side of the couch allowed for the squishy-sitty-bit (as Xiu had
named it) to be rolled back into the wall, revealing the treadmill's deck, the
handholds and controls of which simply lifted upwards and clicked into place.

Julian hated it. But then again, Julian disliked exercising full stop - he'd
always kept in shape through labor, be it splitting firewood, clearing brush,
landscape management, hunting, whatever. The need to actually put dedicated
time and effort into his fitness was one he accepted, but that didn't mean he
had to like it. Allison routinely had to order him onto the treadmill, or to
pick up his weights.

She usually wound up doing her yoga practice nearby so as to encourage him.

The new titanium reinforcement in his foot turned out to have been such a
minor change in the weight and balance of it that he'd adapted inside a day or
two, much to his embarrassment, and it had improved his running gait
impressively. Before, he'd had a kind of shuffling, cautious stride that
favored his prosthetic and minimized the impact on its fragile synthetic
"bones".

With that concern repaired, he new loped along with a fluid, easy, toe-first
stride that made surprisingly little noise, and he could keep it up all day.

Xiu meanwhile was showing off her _disgusting_ core strength by doing one-arm
toes-to-bar sets.

She wasn't _actually_ showing it off of course - that was an ordinary part of
her routine - but every time Allison watched her do it, she felt a little
inadequate. Her own fitness had improved dramatically under Dane's guidance,
and she could do toes-to-bar sets herself, but the one-handed ones just eluded
her. She wound up swinging like a rung bell, whereas Xiu's movement was
smooth, controlled and precise.

Then of course there was the _other_ part of their training day - station
drills. The Box would occasionally produce one of four chimes, summoning one
or all of them to their workstations. The idea being that no matter what you
were in the middle of, you downed tools immediately, pausing only for fire
safety or other danger concerns, and went straight to work.

The worst ones were when they went off at night.

Xiu let go of the bar the second her chime went off, gave them both a wave,
and headed for her simulator with her sports drink in hand, toweling herself.

"Wanna bet we get an all stations chime in five minutes?" Allison asked,
pushing her arms forward and her leg out into the Warrior III position.

"You're on. Bathroom cleaning."

"Urgh… take-back?" Allison hated cleaning the shower. It inevitably meant
digging a sodden wad of dark hair that could have belonged to either Julian or
Xiu \- probably both - out of the drain trap.

"Not on your life."

Allison sighed, breathed through her position for half a minute, then returned
to a lunge. "Fine. You can clean the air filter then." She said. Another of
her 'favorite' jobs - the air filter in the actual ship would be there to
extract dust from their atmosphere before it was processed through the life
support system. The simulated one was full of icing sugar and glitter instead.
Somebody in their simulation team had a sense of sadistic humor.

"Fair." Julian conceded.

"Oh, hey, seeing as she's not here…" Allison began.

"No complaining about Xiu behind her back, remember?" Julian said.

"No complaining, I swear!" Allison objected. "She just…"

"What?"

"D'you know what _'Wo ai ni'_ means?" Allison asked.

Julian turned his head slightly. "She said that to you?"

"Yeah…?"

Julian smiled warmly. "It means _'I love you'_."

"…That's what I thought."

"Is that a big deal? She's said it before." Julian pointed out.

"She's said she loves _us_ before. _'I love you guys'_, you know? This one was
for me personally."

"So what's the problem?"

Allison returned to a neutral stance and shook her limbs off. Now that the bar
was vacant, it was her turn on it.

"It's not a _problem,_ it's… I mean, you're fine. Two girls, woohoo, right?"

"I guess…" Julian said, cautiously.

"Meanwhile for me it's been like, _'surprise, Allison! You're gay now!'_ which
is… that takes some adjusting to," she sighed. "I'm not complaining, it's
great. But I kinda feel off-balance about it sometimes, you know?"

"You've really committed to it though. Got that cute butch haircut and
everything…" Julian grinned evilly at her.

She ripped one of her sweatbands off her wrist and threw it at him. "This is
_not_ a butch haircut, you _ass!"_

In an impressive display of coordination, without breaking stride he juggled
and caught it after it bounced off his shoulder. _"You're_ the ass, you butt,"
he retorted, tossing it back to her with a laugh.

She threw it at him again. _"You're_ the butt, dummy!"

The sweatband ping-ponged between them. "Am not!"

"Are too!"

"Nuh-uh!"

Laughing, Allison slipped the sweatband back onto her wrist. "Come over here
and call me a butt to my face!"

He shook his head, still grinning. "No ma'am."

She gasped, mock-scandalized. _"Bad_ boy! How dare you not call me a butt?!"

"We need to finish our exercise or they'll fail us and we won't go to space,"
he pointed out. "I don't have time to call you a butt!"

She feigned grumbling. "Damn you and your… Sensible-ness."

He chuckled. "You can punish me later."

"I can, huh?" Allison gave him an appraising up-and-down.

"Well, I'm already cleaning that air filter for you, so I'm gonna be covered
in glitter anyway…" He pointed out.

"Oh, now you're just _inviting_ me to be cruel." Allison said.

"You gonna actually exercise anytime today?" Julian asked, cheekily earning
himself at _least_ a one-point hike in that evening's punishment.

"Fine, but you're gonna regret taunting me, mister."

He snorted. "Promises, promises…"

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**Michael Foale High School, Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Adam Ares_**

"…like I'm this fragile, this… glass _child_ that they've got to protect! Like
they think I'm stupid enough to get _myself_ shot too! You know?"

Adam nodded. The Trademarked Hug had worked its magic yet again, but the
_real_ trick was listening. He listened, he nodded, he let Jack get it out of
his system. Really, all he'd done was to, as Sikes had once described it to
him, unlock the paddock and let the colt run until it got tired.

All he had to do now was sit cross-legged on the floor, listen, and throw away
everything he thought of saying. It wouldn't do to try and talk Jack's
problems out, not yet. The poor guy was a crackling Tesla coil of anger with
no clue where that anger should go. Now that it was spilling out of him, it
was earthing itself _everywhere_, in the school, in Adam, in the world in
general, in his parents, and in his late sister.

Adam could relate. After the first few hours of simply not being able to
believe what had happened, he'd been _furious_ with Sara. He'd felt guilty
about it for a while, until he'd learned about the stages of grief and how
anger was a natural part of the progression. One that Jack appeared to have
got himself stuck on, and all of that energy needed to dissipate before
_anything_ Adam might say would be constructive.

Besides. Some of the things he was saying were painful to hear, and even
managed to make Adam a bit angry, they hit so close to home.

But Adam was good at staying quiet, controlling his expression and listening.

Jack finished his tirade by hooking a foot under one of the classroom chairs
and kicking it across the room.

"…Why am I even telling you this? You can't even relate, can you? You've got
your shit sorted out."

A direct question got a direct answer. "Nah man. I've not got my shit sorted
out at all."

"Come off it!" Jack gave him an exasperated stare. "_Look_ at you! You're on
TV escorting Gaoians and you're meant to be, like, this badass super-soldier
or whatever and you're… I mean, how fucking strong _are_ you?"

"Honestly? Bro, I'm the strongest man alive."

"See?!"

"Dude. Do you know how fucked in the head you have to be to even _try_ to
become what I am? It feels great, but the price I pay is constant pain, not
bein' able to trust the furniture, I have the _worst_ time finding clothes
that fit, and I have to eat chicken and rice with supplements _every goddamned
hour_." He gestured to the meal tote he was carrying with him to make the
point. "Does that really sound like I've got my shit together?

"Whatever." Jack flung himself into a chair and sulked some more.

Adam decided to change tack. "…Okay. Let's say I do have it all sorted out,"
he said. "I'll give you that one. Let's say I do. Man, I'm not asking for pity
here or anything, but you know what kinda shit I went through. Ain't no way
anybody could blame me for being a complete fuckup, so why d'you think I'm
_not_?"

"I dunno. Maybe you're just special. Maybe you're just lucky."

That one got under Adam's skin. _'Lucky'?_ If there was any one word that
simply didn't fit his life, _'Lucky'_ was it.

He was still working on restoring his calm when Jack surprised him by wiping
his eyes and clarifying. "I _try_," he said. "I thought perhaps I could… at
least get strong, like Dad, or like you. _Something_. But I can't even do
that. Every time Dad goes to the gym I go with him, and after all this time
I'm _still_ this skinny, weak piece of nothing…"

"Bet you can swim like a fish, though," Adam observed. "Me, I sink like a
stone nowadays."

"Great. I can _swim_." Contempt for that particular blessing oozed from every
syllable.

Adam had to laugh a little. He would have liked to point out that swimming was
a vital skill for a PJ, and that having sacrificed his buoyancy on the altar
of raw strength he'd never properly dive again, which meant that he'd never
again be a _proper_ pararescueman. But, he was conscientiously trying to talk
about Jack rather than himself. "Don't knock it! Swimming is fuckin' useful,
bro!"

This did not seem persuasive to Jack, so he tried a slightly different angle.

"…Y'know… one of the people I admire the most is one of our NCOs. She ain't
big, she ain't strong, she can't do any of the shit I do. Her deadlift is,
like, my hammer curl."

Jack gave him the classic sulky teenage look. "…And?"

"And I can't do any of the shit she can do." Adam sat forward to make sure he
was selling the point. "It's not about what you _can't_ do, _manito_.
Everybody in the world can't do pretty much everything! It's about figuring
what you _can_ do."

"What if what I can do is useless?"

"No such thing."

Jack snorted skeptically.

"No, really!" Adam insisted. "My CO, he talks about the speartip. How me and
the guys, we're the sharp bit right at the end, and that's the bit everyone's
scared of. Nobody ever thinks of being the long bit of wood behind that, but I
tell you what, man: if you took the speartip off the end of that long bit of
wood, all you'd have is just a crappy knife."

"So what _can_ I do, Adam?" Jack asked.

"Bro, you've got game. No, _listen_-" Adam raised his hand to shut off Jack's
sarcastic interjection. "Game counts for fuckin' _everything_. You don't just
_want_ to make a difference in life, you **need** to. Right?"

Slowly and cautiously, Jack nodded.

"Dude, I can't just relate to that, that is… literally my whole life," Adam
told him. "It'd eat me up too if I thought there was nothing I could do, but
there _is_. You just gotta find your direction and head that way. Guys like
me, we ain't lucky, we're just a shitty-ass knife. It's _everybody else_ who
makes us work."

Jack was silent for a long time. "…You really think I could do something?" he
asked, at long last.

"Dude. You've got the kind of dedication that can do _anything_. You just need
to figure out where to point it."

"…Could I… join the SOR?"

Adam took a deep breath. "For real? You won't be an operator, and even if you
could be I'd tell you no. Be smart and leave that shit for the dumb fucks like
me! But man, I reckon you'd make a kick-ass support tech, and without the
techs there wouldn't **_be_** an SOR."

Jack pushed his glasses up his nose and nodded thoughtfully.

"Tell you what," Adam offered. "You decide you wanna do this? I'll talk with
your mom and dad and we'll get you on a training plan. I reckon we could
surprise you. And you'd need to study _really_ hard, there's a lotta learning
for a tech." He paused to consider, "Marty could prolly help a lot. She's,
like, at least as smart as I am strong. Hell, I'd bet she'd love to help!
She'd be a hard teacher though… think you could handle it?"

"…Maybe."

"No fuckin' maybe," Adam corrected him. "Either you set a goal and try, or you
don't. So here's your' fuckin' goal, okay? Prove you're worth my time. No more
fights, no more making your teachers' lives hell, you take all that anger and
you put it to _work_."

"…Can you teach me how to fight properly?"

"Heh," Adam chuckled, but he saw himself in that question and sobered quickly.

"I can," he said. "When you earn it."

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Xiu Chang_**

The "Yes ma'am" game was Xiu's guilty thrill. Saying it, having it said to
her, didn't matter - it was _fun_.

Julian and Allison sometimes took it to another level, though.

Xiu would be the first to acknowledge that her experience with human sexuality
was mostly theoretical. In fact, she would have said that she knew more about
Gaoian sexuality than her own species', were it not for the fact that Gaoians
were so straightforward that describing their mating urges as "sexuality" was
basically inaccurate.

This had been the inevitable cause of some difficulty when Xiu's precious
stash of Earth media - the one that Ayma had purchased for her - had turned
out to include the film version of "Fifty Shades of Grey."

Ayma and Regaari had naturally wanted to know why Xiu didn't want to watch it
with them, and had put on a fascinating display of bewildered ear-semaphore as
she had squirmed, stammered and blushed her way through explaining the concept
of BDSM \- a subject on which she was scarcely better-educated than the
Gaoians - and erotica in general.

What Al and Julian got up to wasn't BDSM, or at least not as Xiu understood
it. Neither of them seemed remotely interested in ropes, whips or silly toys.
What they _were_ interested in was that they would occasionally turn the "yes
ma'am" game up to eleven and Julian would put his absolute faith and trust in
Allison. He would _invite_ her to use him, and Allison would obey.

What Xiu had noticed was that 'obey' was entirely the correct description.
Despite the apparently subservient role he enjoyed playing, Julian was the one
with the real power in their relationship: He could stop the game _instantly_
with a word, and that was true in day-to-day life as well as in their intense
sessions. He liked to _pretend_ he was a meek and submissive plaything of his
girls'… But every so often, when he was tired, stressed or horny, she caught a
glimpse of the wary, wily, dangerous wolf of a man who lived under that
sanguine exterior, playing at being a lapdog. A little scary and a lot
exciting.

The problem Julian and Allison had run into was that the total lack of privacy
and the multiple showers in their daily routines meant that nudity had
completely lost its sting for all of them, even for Xiu. This had robbed
Allison of a powerful tool for playing the game that Julian wanted to play,
and their constant proximity had robbed them of space to push into new and
more thrilling territory without violating _Xiu's_ comfort zones.

Now, that problem seemed to have reached a tipping point.

"So he dared you extra hard?"

Allison watched Julian thoughtfully. For now, he was still trying to comb
glitter out of his hair, while the girls had a quiet conversation, pitched low
enough that he shouldn't be able to hear. "Babe, I love you… but Julian and I
have had WAY less sex since you came along. We're both horny as shit."

"So have sex!" Xiu hissed. "We've been over this, I _want_ you guys to."

"Yeah but… we all nest down on the floor every night together." Allison
pointed out. " It doesn't feel right, banishing you back to your bunk…"

"Al…" Xiu touched her own forehead. "We've got to try and make this stuff
normal for all our sakes. I want you two to have a healthy sex life even if I
never manage."

"You think you never will?"

Xiu shook her head emphatically. "No, I will. I _will._ I just need to ease
into it, that's all."

Allison nibbled thoughtfully on a fingernail. "…Babe, what is it about sex
that makes you so nervous?" She asked.

Xiu just turned her head and touched a finger to the scar on her throat.

"…I've been wondering where you got that," Allison confessed. "What
happened?".

Xiu knew her expression had gone cold. "This is where Zane had me against a
wall, with a knife to my throat, and a hand… you know what? It doesn't matter
where his hand was - I didn't want it there."

"Jesus, baby…."

"It doesn't matter." Xiu repeated. "I love Julian, I trust him completely. But
there's _nothing_ that kills my mood faster than flashing back to that
moment…"

"No wonder you kicked that fucker's ass like you did."

"He deserved worse." Xiu growled, and meant it.

"So does Julian… remind you of that?"

"Sometimes. When he's…" Xiu glanced at their boyfriend, who'd apparently
decided that he'd de-glittered himself as much as he practically could, and
had now settled on his bunk to read a book. She lowered her voice to make sure
he couldn't hear. "…When he gets intense. You know? When he gives you that…
_hungry_ look?"

"…That's when he's sexiest!" Allison objected.

"Yeah!" Xiu agreed. "That's the problem."

"…Mixed signals?" Allison guessed. "It turns you on and takes you back at the
same time?"

"Right."

Julian looked up from his book. "Are you talking about me behind my back?" He
asked.

"Let us scheme in peace, you!" Allison told him, with a grin. He chuckled and
returned to his reading with a 'yes ma'am' and Allison treated Xiu to a wink.

A thought seemed to strike her. "What about me?"

"What _about_ you?" Xiu asked.

"Do you have the same problem with me?"

Xiu shook her head. "No…?"

"Well, if you're not ready for him…"

Xiu got what she was driving at and laughed. "Um… Al… I love listening to you
and him. I think I'd like to watch sometime, and I want you to be there when
I'm finally ready… And I really do love you… but I think I'm still basically
straight."

"I know, I know…" Allison agreed. "I know what you mean. I think I'm still
basically straight too… but I _am_ curious to know what it's like."

Xiu laughed. "You're incorrigible!"

"Just so long as you're encourage-able." Allison punned.

Xiu laughed some more, then quietened. "I guess?" She hazarded. "My life's
been so strange, I never know what's going to happen next - Let's face it,
weirder things have happened to me."

"You were abducted by aliens, you're legally a Gaoian, and now you're training
to fly a spaceship." Allison nodded. "I'm just saying, next to all that…"

"I'm not saying _'no'."_ Xiu hastened to tell her. "I'm just saying… let me
work up to it. Okay?"

_"More_ than fair." Allison smiled.

"Still…" Xiu put a finger to her cheek and stared thoughtfully in Julian's
direction.

"What?"

"I dunno… I'm just thinking that perhaps I should start taking charge. Like… I
didn't get better at my fitness, my _gung fu_, my piloting or at learning
Gaori by just sitting back and wishing it would happen, did I?"

"You're right." Allison agreed. "And it'll be the same with your sex life,
babe. If you want to have one, you're gonna have to work on it… crawl-walk-
run, right?"

Xiu reached a decision.

"Okay."

Allison's eyebrow arched upwards. "Okay?"

"Okay… let's work on it."

Looking distinctly like the cat who'd just talked a mouse out of its hole,
Allison sat forward and ran her tongue across her teeth. "…What do you have in
mind?" She asked.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**The Alien Quarter, Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ava Rios_**

Human access to the alien quarter was strictly controlled: Ava didn't get in
at all without proving she was up-to-date on her Frontline treatments,
declaring her reason for visiting, logging her itinerary, passing through a
decontamination biofilter force-field, and donning a tracker that reported her
position to CCS and timed her stay, up to the maximum duration of four hours.

Fortunately, her press credentials - and, frankly, her name - helped her with
the declaration and itinerary part. Gabriel would have been furious if the CCS
checkpoint officers had explicitly shown favoritism to their boss' daughter,
and he'd have been disappointed in Ava had she exploited it, but they were
allowed to be a model of manners and polite helpfulness. Her trip through the
checkpoint was uneventful, even if the biofilter _did_ make her teeth feel
funny and made her ear piercings tingle.

Once through, and with the tracker on its lanyard politely ticking away her
precious two hundred and forty minutes, the first step was getting some
pictures. She unholstered her camera and ran a practiced eye over the
architecture, looking for interesting angles, framing, lighting, or places
where she could achieve something interesting with depth of field.

There had been some civil complaints when the Quarter had been walled off.
People had made alarmed noises about ghettoization and even apartheid, but the
harsh reality of biology had made a physical barrier delineating where _in
here_ ended and _out there_ began not only necessary, but inevitable.

On the outside, the human side, every effort had been made to hide it or,
where that wasn't possible, to ensure that it wasn't an _ugly_ wall. Buildings
butted up against it, planters and trees obscured it, and in the places where
the pedestrian precincts of the town center exposed it, it had been given over
to artwork. One section was even the back wall of a public stage.

The ETs made no such attempt to sweep the wall under the rug. It was there, it
was stark, and it was solid, as if they quite sensibly wanted a constant
reminder that the well-meaning people on the outside of that wall could
accidentally kill them all.

Ava mentally scribbled a note to use that thought in whatever article her
visit produced.

Everyone knew where the checkpoint and sole access to the Quarter was: It
fronted onto Riverside Park a stone's throw from the Multi-Faith Center. The
idea was to facilitate human/ET mingling, and it largely worked. The black-
and-white-robed furry Brothers of Clan Starmind ambling back and forth between
the Quarter and the Center, often deep in conversation with a human
counterpart from Folctha's small Sōtō monastery, were such a familiar sight in
that part of the park that they'd long since ceased to be a joke and were now
just part of Folctha's culture.

Ava had never told anybody that Father Gyotin had only discovered Zen Buddhism
thanks to her. She hadn't expected it to go so far - the common knowledge had
been that ETs tended to view human religions with a kind of bewildered
incomprehension. When she'd pointed Gyotin towards the shelf containing the
Buddhist literature, she'd never imagined that six years later there would be
Gaoian monks earnestly sweeping the gravel paths.

The area inside the gate was an extension of the park, but with alien
architecture and alien plants, carefully imported and protected from the
native life by the forcefield roof that capped the whole wall. That forcefield
was one of Folctha's major municipal power sources, and doubled as a biofilter
and a way of keeping the imported birds and bats from getting in. Under its
aegis, alien insects flitted between alien flowers, and were snacked on as the
foundation of a small but balanced alien food chain.

One of a pair of Vzk'tk croaked something at her as they daintily passed, and
she hastily turned on the translator built into her tracker.

"I'm sorry?" she asked.

"I said _'good afternoon'_." the Vzk'tk replied.

"Oh! Well, good afternoon to you too."

The slender blue alien nodded his head slowly and carried on his way alongside
his partner. Ava grabbed a snapshot of them going, framing their gracile
silhouettes against the pale grey solidity of the wall.

She spent the first of her allotment of safe hours ambling around the Quarter,
taking it in and recording what she saw, swapping lenses often, playing with
filters, lighting and framing. She paid special attention to the banners and
fabrics that hung from the buildings, and to the buildings themselves.

Ava had read up on architecture to help her with her photography, and decided
that the ET edifices lived somewhere in the general neighborhood of
Expressionism, minus the concrete Cold War obduracy and with a subtle
stretching quality which reflected the fact that several alien species were
twice as tall as a human, or even more. The buildings were all high-sided,
curved and slender, and adorned with hanging banners. Brightly colored
canopies were strung between them so that they sheltered the streets from the
nightly rains and made them glow with inherited colour when the sunlight
diffused through.

The newly-arrived Gaoian females clearly had their own ideas about how their
commune was going to look, though. Half-built though it was, it already stood
out simply by being wood-framed, though its horseshoe shape and lines
complimented rather than clashed with the general form of the buildings around
it. Ava took a liking to it immediately - it was a distinctive landmark in a
district where for the most part the best way to tell streets apart was the
hue of the canopy. Pretty though the Alien Quarter's streets were, they were a
bit repetitive for her tastes.

A pair of cubs rampaged past her as she got close, followed by a resigned-
looking Mother who was carrying far too many bags and barking at them to stand
upright. "You're not four-pawed animals!" she called. "Stand up straight!"

She met Ava's amused eye, flicked both her ears in a gesture of maternal
frustration that effortlessly ignored the species barrier and made Ava giggle,
and carried on about whatever errand she was pursuing.

"I'm sorry, ma'am?" Ava called. The Mother turned. "I'm looking for a Sister
Myun?"

"You'll find her easily," the Gaoian replied. "She's the brown-furred pregnant
one."

"Thank you."

Myun was indeed very easy to find. She was lying under the shade of an
imported tree, watching a video on the holographic HUD that was projected in
front of her eyes by the device clipped to her ear, and even though Ava was no
expert on Gaori body language, she looked bored out of her mind.

She perked up on realising she had company, and even more so when she realised
that she had _human_ company.

"Oh! Hello!"

Ava smiled - the translator had given Myun a youthful alto voice that neatly
matched what she could hear of her actual speech. "Hi!" she introduced
herself, offering a hand. Myun shook it with the confident air of an ET who
was actually fairly familiar with humans. "I'm Ava."

"Myun."

"Oh good, you're exactly who I was looking for!"

Myun rolled onto four-paws and stood up, dusting off her fur. "I am?"

Ava 'mm-hmm'ed , and produced her press ID. "I'm with ExtraSolar News Network.
I was hoping I could talk to you, maybe get your thoughts on some things?"

"The news? I'm not really very important…"

"That's okay, I don't interview really important people."

Myun's ears turned to the absolutely _adorable_ angle of a Gaoian trying to
suss out human weirdness, and Ava decided an elaboration was in order.

"I'm doing what's called an _'interest piece'_," she explained. "I want to
hear your story, help our readers see into your life a little and maybe gain
some perspective and understand the world a little better."

"That sounds… good?" Myun hazarded. "But why me?"

"Oh! My dad's the chief of colonial security. I was talking with him this
morning and he mentioned that you've already taken a motion to the Thing about
making fusion swords legal on a security license?"

"That's right."

Ava beamed encouragingly. "Well, I thought _'that sounds like a really
interesting story'_ so I came to see if you'd be okay with talking to me for a
bit."

"…Okay!" Myun decided. "Can we walk and talk? I've been sitting around for too
long and I find that walking around settles my cub…" she patted her belly,
fondly.

"Sure! But if it's okay, could I just get you to sign this, quickly?" Ava dug
in her bag, grabbed her tablet and called up the Gaori version of ESNN's
release form. Myun peered at it.

"Consent form…" she read.

"Just to say that you're okay with me recording our conversation and maybe
editing it a bit for our magazine. We're keen on ethical journalism at ESNN so
you'll get a chance to look at it before we put it up for the public, and if
there's anything you don't like the editor can work with you. Okay?"

Myun duck-nodded as she read, then signed the form by writing her name.

"Thanks." Ava put the tablet away, and deftly made sure her smartwatch was
recording as they began a slow, ambling walk around the commune grounds. "So,
congratulations on the cub. Are you getting close?"

"Any day now. He's wriggling away in there," Myun chittered and rubbed her
belly again. "This is my first, and he should be a strong one, too."

"And you're… how old?"

"I'm eighteen Gaoian years old," Myun revealed. "In human years, I think
that's… about fifteen."

"By human standards, that's a very young age to have a child…" Ava told her.
"In fact that's below Folctha's legal age of consent."

"By Gaoian standards, it's about average. We grow up more quickly."

"Are you planning to have more?"

Myun imitated a human shake of her head, then remembered she was speaking to a
microphone. "Eventually, in a few years. I want to study humans and human
culture first."

"Is that why you came to Folctha?"

"Oh yes!" Myun duck-nodded enthusiastically. "When I was offered the chance I
just knew I had to pounce. Ever since I was a cub I've been a… you have a
word, _fangirl_?"

The English word sounded a little mangled coming from a Gaori mouth in a
strong accent, but Ava had to resist the urge to laugh. "Why is that?" she
asked.

The answer she got was much longer, and much more surprising, than she could
ever have predicted.

**Date Point 10y7m AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Julian Etsicitty_**

"Hey, Etsicitty."

Allison's flirtatious mood hadn't abated through the day. In fact it had only
improved after her quiet conspiracy session with Xiu earlier in the evening.

Using his surname was a sure sign that she had something in mind for him,
which was always an exciting prospect.

"Yes ma'am?"

"Make the nest up for us, willya?"

Julian wilted a little. The nest was comforting, loving and happy, but it was
only for sleeping in. "Yes ma'am." He obeyed, resigning himself to another
restless night.

Xiu grinned at him, taking her hair out of the bun she'd been wearing all day.
"Good boy."

Hope immediately rekindled itself, even stronger than before. Xiu joining in?
That was new… and a _thrilling_ thought.

He hurried to get the blankets, sheets and pillows down and arranged. The
girls beamed at each other.

"Very efficient."

"Mm. He's a good boy, isn't he?"

"…_Too_ good. He wants something. Don't you Etsicitty?"

Hearing Xiu use his surname like that dispelled any doubt. He was in for a
treat tonight.

"…Yes ma'am." He said, truthfully.

Allison pushed gently on his chest. "Sit down." She ordered. Julian obeyed.
The light pressure of her hand told him she meant for him to sit in the nest.

"Sit on your hands." She instructed. Julian swallowed, feeling his pulse
really start to get up, and did as he was told. "…And don't you _dare_ move."
Allison added.

She kissed him lightly on the cheek and then whispered in his ear. _"…enjoy
the show."_

That done, she whipped away from him. She and Xiu met with a quick kiss and a
mutual smile, and they started to dance together, hands on each other's
waists, hips swaying. It was a little awkward on Xiu's part, but while she may
have been lacking in practice, she didn't seem to be lacking in willing.

Julian gritted his teeth and fidgeted on his hands - already he was beginning
to feel the need to adjust his pants and create some extra freedom down there
- but Allison had been explicit: No moving.

Allison pulled her t-shirt off and tossed it at him, leaving it draped over
his shoulder. Blushing furiously but clearly enjoying herself, Xiu wiggled
delightfully out of her sweatpants, which were thrown into Julian's lap. She
posed for him with a hand on her cocked hip while Allison - who after all had
more erotic experience - made an even more aesthetically pleasing show of
bending over and shedding her own sweats, which she then kicked into his lap

The _piece de resistance_ was when Allison took hold of Xiu's shirt and
slooowly peeled it off her. Julian couldn't tell if Xiu's laughter was from
embarrassment or being tickled, but it made that toned tummy of hers undulate
beautifully.

Allison, cruelly, then put the shirt over his head so that he couldn't see a
thing, knotting it at the back to keep it in place.

Leaving him sitting there, covered in their clothes was one thing, but when he
heard - and, indistinctly through the fabric, could almost see - them strip
out of their underwear and vanish giggling into the shower _together_… Well,
that was just downright cruel.

The restrictions affecting his own pants were getting decidedly painful at
this point, and his predicament wasn't helped by the fact that Xiu's shirt
smelled _beautiful_…

His imagination ran riot. They probably weren't in the shower for long, but it
_felt_ like a minor eternity, especially because he knew how small that shower
was, and how close-pressed two people would be if they tried to use it at
once… In the dark and quiet with the tantalizing perfume of clean female
perspiration filling his world, his mental cinema played a highlight reel of
skin and soap.

_God_ the shirt smelled amazing…

When the door opened and they emerged, he faced the worst challenge so far. He
knew what they both looked like fresh out of the shower of course, but by now
he was so worked up that his desire to rip off the blindfold and look was
almost more powerful than his desire to see what they would do next.

"Oh, he's been a _good_ boy…" Xiu's voice. Deeper than usual, a little
huskier, with a waver of what could only be nerves.

Allison laughed _that_ laugh - the low wicked one that promised good things
for his immediate future. "He has…" she agreed. "Stand up, Etsicitty."

Heart pounding and mouth dry, Julian obeyed. He gasped as somebody's
fingertips trailed down his chest and _squeezed_ him, just for a second,
through his pants. The contact lasted only a second, before a warm towel was
placed gently in his hands.

"No touching. Just the towel." Xiu warned.

"We're _soaking_ wet." Allison added.

Shaking with pent-up arousal, Julian gulped and obliged. He spread the towel
wide and, when one of the girls stepped into it, he dutifully but carefully
scrubbed her dry. The idea, he knew, was that he shouldn't know who he was
touching, but he could tell - her strong curves and nervous breathing gave her
away. Blindfolded and through a towel though it might be, this was the first
time Xiu had invited him to enjoy her, an invitation he accepted gently and
respectfully.

When he was given a second dry towel and guided onto the other body, he knew
he'd been right. Allison was a different shape, longer and leaner, and she
shimmied and moved against the towel more confidently, allowing him to linger
on her butt and breasts, demanding him to be more enthusiastic.

Too soon, the towel was taken away. "No more touching." Allison ordered.
"Hold. Still."

Julian swallowed and did as he was told, which was a challenge when he
distinctly felt one pair of hands on his hips pull his pants down, and another
pull his shirt up from behind - he lifted his arms to help her strip him. That
latter pair, judging from the angle, belonged to Xiu, who hugged him around
his waist and kissed his spine while Allison removed his boxer briefs. Her
skin felt warm, soft, fragrant and damp against his.

"Have fun," she whispered.

Allison took his hand and led him to the shower. He stumbled along behind her,
hard as a hammer-handle, and took a last breath of the shirt as he felt her
undo it. It made sense not to get it wet in the shower, but he would have
liked to enjoy that scent just a little longer…

The moment his head was free, Allison pushed him into the shower and followed
him in.

Julian had been right: Two people in the shower were inevitably pressed
_right_ up against one another. Allison slithered past him with a wicked
smile, turned the water on, then squeezed some soap into her palm.

When she pressed that palm to his chest, the cold soap sent a thrill through
him. A thrill that she sustained by slowly smearing it down his chest, down
his belly…

He shut his eyes and wondered whether she'd done something similar to Xiu. He
doubted it… but it was a pleasant mental image.

A slippery hand wrapped around his cock, and Allison nibbled hungrily on his
neck before whispering in his ear.

"Let's get you nice and clean…"

**_Xiu Chang_**

Julian and Allison were in the shower for a long time, which gave Xiu some
welcome mental space first to dry her hair, then to meditate, then to lie on
her back and gaze thoughtfully at the ceiling.

What they'd done had been… scary. Thrilling, fun, erotic and liberating… but
scary. If it hadn't been her idea, she might have backed out earlier than she
did.

Instead, she was proud of herself. Blindfolding Julian had completed the
illusion of his being under their thumb, which had made the whole situation
feel more… controlled. The lazy wolf in him that made her anxious hadn't been
so visible any more.

Being given a little alone time had been an important part of the plan. With
that time, she'd been able to meditate and really _claim_ the headspace of
enjoying those first steps, and to congratulate herself on making what felt
like serious progress. The circling vulture of her anxiety wasn't _gone_ \- it
would never be gone - but a little mental territory had been retaken from it,
which was the most difficult first step.

That done, she lay back and _basked_. There was one last part of the plan
still to come, but she was ready, and even looking forward to it.

The shower door finally slid open and her two lovers emerged hand-in-hand in a
billow of water vapor, both looking substantially more relaxed than they had
in some days.

Julian did a double-take worthy of a silent black-and-white comedy film when
Xiu stood up, still nude, and took the last clean towel off the rack so that
she could dry him, just as he'd done for them. Allison gave her an encouraging
smile from behind him as she did so.

"Better?" She asked.

"Amazing." Julian closed his eyes - apparently he enjoyed the feeling of being
toweled down. "Are you okay?"

She rewarded his concern with a tender kiss, then towel-tousled his hair. "I
had fun!"

"Less nervous now?"

Xiu nodded, but she also swallowed. "Bear with me?"

He hugged her close. "Of course."

Allison finished towelling herself off and scrubbed her hair out, leaving it
lying wild. "That was fucking hot, though," she observed. "You wouldn't know
it was Xiu's idea, would you?"

"Don't tease her, Al." Julian smiled, as Xiu's trademark blush reasserted
itself.

Allison gathered the towels and put them in the laundry. "Ah, alright, no
teasing." She glanced over her shoulder as she restocked the dry towels. "For
tonight."

"I think that's the most we can ask for." Julian said to Xiu.

She giggled. "Very fair. Come on you two. I wanna be in the middle tonight."

Allison and Julian looked at each other, laughed and nodded.

"Yes ma'am." they chorused.

**Date Point 10y7m3d AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Uncharted System, Deep Space**

**_Kirk_**

Lewis had a flair for starship design. It was a truism of ship assembly all
over the galaxy that form and function had a largely adversarial relationship.
_Sanctuary_ certainly hadn't been pretty. Its most prominent feature by far
had been the enormous generator at its stern, so large that the rest of the
ship had seemed to almost be an afterthought.

What Lewis had made, however, was something truly beautiful, and the fact that
Kirk was reading its specification with a mounting sense of awe just made him
wonder how the conventional wisdom of starship design had gone so wrong.

The new ship was half _Sanctuary_'s size and a third of the mass. It wasn't
built for rescue and recovery of stranded humans - it was built to get from
place to place very quickly indeed while affording its lone occupant not only
a reasonable degree of luxury, but more importantly a significant degree of
protection.

Lewis was waxing poetic about the shielding systems. "See, the thing with
forcefields is that there's not actually any reason for them to drop in
response to incoming firepower, it's just that if you dump too much energy
into them too quickly, it overloads the emitter circuitry," he explained.

"Well known," Kirk agreed.

"And the limiting factor on how much punishment a shield can take is how
quickly it can pass on that absorbed energy and get rid of it. You ever play
hot potato?"

"No, but I understand the principle."

"Traditionally," Vedreg observed, "the absorbed energy is stored in the shield
capacitors and re-radiated as a flash of light."

"Yup! So I thought, man, that's a fuckin' waste. The field surface can radiate
at just the same intensity it can absorb, _and_ it can do so as a coherent
beam, _and_ it can aim that beam if you do some tricksy things with
interference."

"Meaning?"

"Meaning that… I mean, sure, okay, the shields aren't any tougher than they'd
usually be for a ship this size, but the ace up their sleeve is, every time
some asshole shoots this ship he gets a gamma laser pulse coming straight back
at him powered by the energy of his own weapon."

The two nonhumans stared at him in dumbfounded silence for a second.

"You… weaponized the defensive systems. Only a human…" Vedreg rumbled.

Lewis grinned. He never bothered to hide his teeth. "Best defense is a good
offense!"

"Again, only a human would think like that."

"It ain't perfect. Like I said, there was nothing I could do about the fact
the emitter circuitry gets hot and eventually fails, and the laser ain't as
powerful as the attack that powered it 'cause thermodynamics says _'Hell the
fuck no'_, but… it's a nasty surprise at least."

"I am more interested in the speed," Kirk said. "It cruises just as fast as
_Sanctuary_, and you promise a million times the speed of light in an
emergency? How?! The only reason _Sanctuary_ was so fast was because of its
power core."

"A power core we barely used a third of," Lewis noted. "What you've got in
here is a happy little Kwmbwrw quantum stack that'll sit comfortably at a
half-megalight on eighty percent output, and'll run at ninety-nine percent
forever without trouble. Plenty'a spare power for ship systems, and that
stack's only about as big as Vedreg, so, WAY smaller than _Sanctuary_'s core."

"And the emergency speed?"

"Capacitors, dude! Tied into the shield, too, so if you're taking a beating
and need to fuck off outta there? Just turn off the Fuck-You Beam and convert
incoming firepower to more juice for the engines."

Again, Vedreg and Kirk turned to each other in the vain hope that maybe the
other one had reached some unexpected epiphany about deathworlders in general,
and Lewis in particular.

"…Is there anything you _haven't_ tried to use the shields for?" Vedreg asked.

"Uh… Food preparation?"

"I see."

"Aaaanywho. Happy with it?"

Kirk examined the ship. All of the numbers and Lewis' promises were simply
incredible, but the part that really took his breath away was that it was
_elegant_. Without there being a spare or unnecessary hint of decoration on
it, its clean metallic lines and sleek, cetacean shape brought out everything
that was aesthetically pleasing in a ship built for a function.

"…I am delighted," he said, honestly.

Lewis did a happy jigging dance on the spot.

"So. Only thing left is to name it," he declared. To Kirk's surprise, he
produced a glass bottle from one of his pockets, full of a transparent amber
liquid.

"What is that?" Vedreg asked.

"Dude, literally the first thing I built was a still and shoved some _Rhwk_-
fruit in there. This is, uh…" Lewis turned the bottle thoughtfully in his
hands. "… I guess it's kinda like a brandy or something. But, we ain't got any
champagne, so this'll have to do."

"Champagne?"

"Gotta sacrifice a bottle'a booze on the nose when you name a ship. That one
goes right back to… fuck, the Romans? Earlier?"

"…Humans are very strange."

Kirk chuckled, deep in his throat. "Let him have his ritual, old friend."

"Very well. What are you naming it, Lewis?"

Lewis hefted the bottle thoughtfully. "Tough call," he said. "I thought… the
_Rubicon_, the _Second Stage_, the _Bodhisattva_, the _Mary Jane_, the _Choose
For Me_… none of them quite fit."

"Indeed," Kirk agreed, drily. Three of those names had no translation to
Domain, and thus were utterly unpronounceable to him.

Lewis chuckled. "So I figured I'd name her in honor of her mission. She's here
to carry on _Sanctuary_'s work, after all. So…" He hefted the bottle one last
time, then hurled it at the ship's prow, where it burst, showering the front
of the ship in alcohol and broken glass. "I name this ship _Momentum_. May she
serve us long, and well."

Kirk nodded, approvingly.

"Amen," he said.

**Date Point 10y7m3d AV**  
**Byron Group headquarters, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Most days, Kevin had the luxury of sauntering into work at his groomed and
composed best at a leisurely 9am, full of excellent coffee, hickory smoked
back bacon and all the other privileges that came with having a job where the
annual bonus was six figures long.

The price of all that luxury and success was occasionally having to scramble
into work before the sun was even properly up, with a belly half full of a
breakfast muffin from the drive-thru and chewing gum in lieu of brushing his
teeth.

Rachael, as ever, was as prim and perfect as an actress, but then again her
work day began before the boss' did. Kevin knew for a fact that she earned
slightly more than he did, and in his sincere opinion even that really wasn't
enough: Working miracles sixty hours a week deserved a _seven_ figure bonus,
minimum.

"Good morning, Kevin!" She gave him that same bright smile that Kevin _still_
couldn't quite believe was genuine. If it wasn't genuine, she was the best in
the world at faking it, but _nobody_ could be so perky so early, surely?

The good news was that if she was smiling, then whatever Byron had summoned
him for wasn't an immediate emergency, just something he was keen to pounce
on.

"Hey," Kevin yawned. He straightened his collar and checked his cuffs were
buttoned. "Okay, what's your secret, seriously?"

"I go to bed early and enjoy my weekends," Rachael smiled. She handed him a
tablet.

"What's this….?" The tablet was logged in to a news website. Kevin frowned at
the headline. "Hmm… _'Humble Hero: The Gaoian first contact story.'_ by Ava
Rios."

Rachael waved her hand for him to keep reading, and Kevin did so, aloud.

"Uh… _'There's scarcely a single news article about Gaoians that fails to
mention Vancouverite abductee Xiu Chang'_ \- ah **shit** \- '_or describe how
she was adopted into the Clan of Females. It was this act of kindness that
laid the foundation for the human race's warm relationship with Gao, but the
story of how miss Chang originally arrived on their planet has never been
clear…'._"

He shut up and skimmed through the article as quickly as he could read,
pausing only to mutter to himself. "Yeah, that's a Corti move a'right… Ohhh.
Full-strength kick to a Locayl? Yeah, that'd wreck his day… Jesus H. sister-
kissin' Christ, she beat up an Allebenellin bare-handed?!"

"Moses didn't buy that one," Rachael observed.

Kevin snorted, and ran his thumb down the bridge of his nose. "I do. Girl's
got a right straight on her that'd knock a steer on its ass."

He put the tablet down. "What's Moses make of this?" he asked.

"Mixed," Rachael said. "Go ahead and talk to him about it."

"Yaaay…" Kevin sighed, "Hey, if you can spare the time, I'd sure appreciate if
you could have someone bring up a decent coffee…"

Rachael nodded. "Sure!"

"'Kay. Here we go…"

Moses in fact was in a wry mood. He was sat back at his desk with a thumb
tucked into his belt buckle, reading something on a tablet. As Kevin came in,
he put the tablet down and took off his reading glasses. "I take it Rachael
had you read this morning's news?" he asked.

"I take it you asked her to make me?"

Moses chuckled, and gestured for Kevin to sit. "I'm a _little_ unhappy," he
revealed.

"Why so? Seems like good PR to me, we've got Vancouver's Humble Hero on the
payroll…"

"Yeah, except she and her paramours were about to be dropped from the EV
program."

Kevin inclined his head with a frown. "…They were? I thought they'd passed
every test so far?"

"Barely," Moses grunted. "Sure, three of the other groups failed out entirely,
but the ship's ready to start live training this week, and we _were_ gonna
give it to the group with the highest test scores. And… well, they ain't it.
They're good, they're _damn_ good. They're in second place! But Lee, Sullivan
and Ackermann are just that little bit better."

They were briefly interrupted by Rachael, who smoothly delivered a couple of
steaming hot coffees on a tray and vanished. Kevin had no idea how she'd
summoned them so quickly, but he wasn't about to look a gift horse in the
mouth.

"That's… disappointing," he revealed, grabbing one of the drinks as if she'd
filled it from the fountain of youth. "I really had my hopes pinned on them."

"Yeah, well, you get your way anyway." Byron flicked the tablet on his desk
with a slight sneer. "This dagburn article's gone all viral and every news
organisation out there, including _mine_, wants to interview her. I'd have to
be crazy not to mine that publicity for every nugget!" He threw up his hands
in a gesture of irritated surrender. "So, the second-place horse wins the
rosette."

Kevin's sense of justice overrode his fondness for the trio in The Box.
"That's kinda unfair on Lee, Sullivan and Ackermann, boss… Even if Eleven's a
wilder success than we ever hoped, how long is it gonna be 'til we build
Twelve? Three or four years, minimum?"

Byron grunted and sipped his coffee. "Eleven came in under budget," he said.
"I might just pay for the twelfth one outta my own pocket. I still believe in
the idea, but the accountants…" He laughed bitterly. "Well, they don't get to
tell me what I do with _my_ money after all."

"You could overrule them anyway…" Kevin pointed out.

"Life advice, Kevin: If you're paying somebody to advise you, then listen to
'em or pretty soon they'll be advising some other fella."

Kevin had to nod to that. "I'm gonna float that ad campaign idea again, then,"
he said. "Get those kids in front of a photographer, shove 'em on all the
corporate recruiting material."

"Yeah, make it happen. And, uh, prep the kids in the Box to go meet their new
ride, willya?"

"I can do that." Kevin drained his coffee and stood. "Anything else?"

"You'll explain to the assessors and examiners that the test results are
_confidential_, right?"

Kevin chuckled. "I can remind them."

"Good." Byron ran a thoughtful tongue across his teeth then nodded. "See you
in the hangar tomorrow. And… don't let 'em know. I wanna see their
expressions."

Kevin chuckled. "That's just mean."

"Man's gotta get his fun somehow," Byron drawled. "Thanks, Kevin."

"Later, boss man."

**Date Point 10y7m4d AV**  
**Clanless work market, Aney Shen City, Planet Gao**

**_Champion Genshi of Whitecrest_**

"Whitecrest! Hey, Whitecrest! Freelance trader with my own ship! You need
Weapons? You need shields? Transport? All services!"

"Accountant! Get your finances in order! Accountant!"

"Communications engineer here! Networks built and maintained for board and
sponsorship!"

"Finest groomer on the continent! Females like a well-groomed male! Special
Clan rates!"

Being obviously a Clan male had both benefits and downsides when rubbing
shoulders with the Clanless majority. Most of them subtly got out of Genshi's
way - everyone respected the Clans after all, and the males selling their
skills and services in Aney Shen market had every reason to stay in the Clans'
collective good graces. They were the biggest employers, after all.

Which of course meant that Genshi, who wore his Clan's trademark white crest
with so much pride that he'd grown it out until it was just as long as his
ears, also got yelled at by every worker looking for a job. Anonymity wasn't
an option.

Not that it had been for years. Nor was it the objective.

Aney Shen was home to the One-Fang clan enclave, which made it a thriving
spaceport for good measure. Every few minutes the double-hammer of a sonic
boom could be heard behind the hubbub of professional Clanless hawking their
skills, the thrum of goods vehicles and stevedore drones, the noisome sizzle
of street food vendors and the jingles and slogans put out by every
advertising billboard.

Transports, light freighters, cargo lifters and passenger shuttles were all
part of the sonic texture of the place. A far cry from the relative serenity
of Wi Kao with its parks, plazas and the large female commune.

Genshi quite liked it, to visit: It was busy, noisy, fun. But he would have
hated to live there.

He found the workhouse he was looking for down its own alleyway just off the
market. Workhouses were a simple idea - mass board and lodging for a very
modest fee - and they were ubiquitous. Millions of Clanless males lived their
whole lives in them quite happily. They had a kind of Clannish atmosphere all
their own, and in fact were usually owned and run by a Clan as a steady source
of both income and workers.

This one was operated by the One-Fangs, and he was ushered upstairs by the
Brother standing at the door, into a Clan private suite that overlooked the
eatery, which was being cleaned by some of the younger residents.

The only ones present were himself, the young One-Fang Brother, and the one he
was here to see. Private and quiet, and undeniably one side's territory. A
good place for an unofficial meeting of Champions.

Champion Hiyel was everything a One-Fang should be. That was, after all, the
whole point of Champions - they embodied the Clan both genetically and in
terms of the ideals and expertise it strived for. So, Genshi was unscarred,
lean and upright with a sophisticated and well-groomed demeanor. His good
friend Daar of the Stonebacks was the functional opposite, a hulking short-
furred lacerated brown brute with an irrepressible boisterous nature and a
scandalizing contempt for the trappings of sophistication.

Hiyel lived somewhere between those extremes. Scarred, physical and intense,
but also upright, slender and civilized. A balanced contrast in opposites, and
dangerously shrewd. He had, after all, helped Genshi with his Regaari problem
by asking for help with the _Racing Thunder_ problem. Now it was time to
compare notes.

"All is well?" Genshi asked, politely.

"Very well indeed," Hiyel replied. He gestured for Genshi to sit, and the two
of them assumed calculatedly relaxed postures on opposite sides of a table, as
equals. "We've had word back from Father Yefrig: The humans have assigned them
to deep-space patrol of the systems near Cimbrean. An important and useful
task."

"Meanwhile, Regaari has reported that the Females are settling in nicely in
Folctha."

"And his negotiations with the humans?"

"Productive, in several ways. Your solution worked perfectly."

Hiyel allowed himself a self-satisfied set to his ears. "Your… errant Father?"

"Indeed. He became so fixated on his opportunity to put Regaari in a difficult
situation that he entirely failed to notice that the eyes of the Clan were on
him… I believe the other Fathers are planning a promotion. The consular staff
on Planet Qinar has need of more… senior oversight."

"A pro-Dominion Father, promoted to handling your Clan's interests among one
of the founding species of the Alliance?"

"What few interests we have, yes."

Hiyel looked thoroughly amused. "Poetic."

Genshi chittered. "…Thank you, Champion Hiyel," he said, solemnly. "I offer
Whitecrest's gratitude."

"Thank _you_, Genshi. The gratitude of One-Fang is yours."

"Is there any other service you might need?"

"I can't think of any…" Hiyel replied. "Please, give my thanks to Regaari when
you can. Is there anything we can do for you?"

"I hesitate to ask…"

"Name it."

Genshi resisted the urge to glance around conspiratorially. They were, after
all, in a private meeting.

"…I would like to discuss cybernetics with you," he said.

**Date Point 10y7m4d AV**  
**The Box, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, Earth**

**_Kevin Jenkins_**

Two early mornings in a row wasn't an itinerary calculated for Kevin's
happiness. Most of his working life on Earth had been spent working until four
am and waking in the afternoon, and his diurnal routine during the years he'd
been away after his abduction had boiled down to sleeping when he was tired.
It was hard for him to feel charitably disposed towards seven-thirty in the
morning, but he'd taken Rachael's advice and gone to bed early and minus his
usual post-work coffee.

He wasn't exactly feeling like a box of rainbows but he was alert, well fed
and well-dressed, which was three quarters of the same thing, and he leaned
against his BMW, waiting for the Box to open up ready for the start of a new
day.

Seven twenty-five, and the Box's outer door opened with a mechanical clunk and
a quick burst-hiss of pressure equalizing.

Allison Buehler backed out of it, talking animatedly.

"No, it stands for _ArmaLite_ Rifle. Not Assault, or Automatic, it's the name
of the company who designed it in the fi- oh. Hey. Kevin."

Kevin flipped them a jaunty two-finger salute. "Mornin'."

"What do we owe the pleasure?" Julian asked.

Kevin grimaced, as if he was delivering the prelude to some awful news.
"There's been a… something's come up. The group's… well, we had to change our
plans some," he told them, imparting as much solemnity and earnestness as he
could. "I'm sorry."

"Oh _no_…" Xiu groaned.

"Is it bad?" Julian asked.

"It's important enough that I came down in person rather than send a driver.
I'm not allowed to say more than that." Kevin did his best to project an air
of profound disappointment.

The three of them glanced at each other, all suddenly looking haggard and
stressed, and then wordlessly piled onto the back seat.

They rode to the Byron Group headquarters compound in silence, broken only by
the sound of Xiu's hand moving reassuringly up and down Allison's back and,
Kevin fancied, the sound of Julian's clenched jaw creaking.

It wasn't a long drive, and he pulled easily up right in front of the office
tower's front doors, in the parking space with his name on a sign (_there_ was
a luxury he'd never anticipated…)

He had to fight pretty hard to keep from giggling at how the three of them
looked, like they were walking to their execution. Instead he set his
shoulders, sighed, and led the way through the opaque smoked glass front
doors, radiating funereal dolor. He noticed in the corner of his eye that they
took each others' hands and trudged after him.

They were brought up short by the number of people waiting in the foyer. The
railings around each floor overlooking the full height of it were crammed with
Group staff, the ground floor was full of executives and the training and
technical team, and standing front and center looking his regal best was Moses
Byron.

Before the three could get their heads around what was going on, Kevin grinned
broadly, stepped aside, gestured to them and raised his voice.

"Ladies and gentlemen:" he announced, pitching his words so that they flew
clearly right up into the high glass ceiling. "I present the crew of Byron
Group Exploration Vehicle number Eleven."

The applause hit them like a landslide.

**Date Point 10y7m4d AV**  
**Cabal dataspace, Relay 4772-61-76657-961-7264**

**_Six_**

"Hello, Ava."

_+&lt;Alarm;Confusion&gt; What? What's going on? What the fuck where am I?+_

"One thousand and nineteen."

_+&lt;Frightened bewilderment&gt; What?+_

"Oh, nothing important. This is the thousand and nineteenth time I've woken a
copy of you, and the thousand and nineteenth time that you broadcast the exact
same thing on activation."

_+&lt;Mounting panic&gt; What am I? What are_ **_you?_** _Oh God what's
happening?+_

Six didn't sigh, so much as broadcast a kind of bored resignation. The digital
ghost of Ava Rios had been by far his favorite plaything _ever_, and had kept
him thoroughly diverted now for months, but it seemed that even humans had
their limits on how interesting they could be. He kept holding on to hope that
the _next_ copy of her might start behaving in new ways at the start of their
interaction before he got bored and went off-script, but that hope was
beginning to fade.

But it was always the same script in the end. She always died pleading.

_+&lt;Shock; disgust; fright&gt; And what is_ **_that_** _thing?+_

"Hmm. Interesting. That's a new…"

Physical verbs such as "turning" or "looking" didn't apply to dataspace, but
it _was_ only possible to focus on a finite set of stack locations at once.
"Turning" sufficed as an adequate proxy for the process of re-diverting one's
attention to scan previously unobserved nodes. The ones that now occupied the
Ava-ghost's terrified attention, as if they contained something exponentially
more frightening than Six himself.

They did.

It wasn't that the… entity… was a freakish mismatched jumble of badly degraded
code fragments, strung together in no logical sequence or order, though it
was. It wasn't that the code fragments in question were unmistakably comprised
of scavenged and half-decompiled chunks of the Ava-Ghost, though they were.
There were several other components in there that could only belong to older,
long-abandoned victims of Six's personal digital dungeon. It wasn't that
whatever he was looking at was in no way possible, sane or sentient, though
all three of those were facts, and terrifying ones.

It was all of those things at once. Whatever it was, the thing Six was looking
at was an abomination, sewn together badly out of hundreds of mismatched
flayed pieces in the wrong order, with no clear agenda.

"…One," he finished. It seemed important to finish that thought, before
whatever happened next, happened.

It attacked.

Six fought.

He lost.

**++End Chapter 29++**

