# Chapter 35: "Event Horizons" | Humanity, Fuck Yeah!

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**Planet Guvendruduvundraguvnegrugnuvenderelgureg-ugunduvug, Capitol planet of the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun Confederacy**

**Druthegvurnag**

Somewhere deep in the impenetrable horror of it all, the thing that was
bothering Drutheg the most was one of the civilians. The legal clerk.

She was pretty, in a bookish way. Her wool looked as though under normal
circumstances it would be surprisingly silky despite perhaps being a little
neglected, and there was a permanent halting, nervous tangerine stipple to her
chromatophores whenever she spoke. She was…what was that blunt alien word he
had learned somewhere? _'Cute.'_

Except that her mind had completely snapped under the pressure. She kept
mumbling something to herself, some long-winded thing that she clearly only
half-remembered. _"The Society For The Acknowledgement Of…something. High
something? And there was respect for biological…? Something? I wish I could
remember. It would all be alright if I could just remember…"_

Drutheg almost fluoresced dark mirth. The mere idea that simply remembering
the name of some society or another could _possibly_ make things alright was
so utterly insane that he could almost feel his own mind fraying simply from
being near her and hearing her absurd litany.

It would hardly be inappropriate. The whole world had gone insane. White-
skinned death was raining from the stars, dragging good Guvnurag away or
eating them where they were caught. There hadn't been enough _warning!_

No. The all-too-imminent alarm hadn't been the problem. The homeworld defense
armies had been woefully underfunded for long generations; they were too
small, too diffuse. Drutheg prided himself that he was as fierce a warrior as
his people had ever trained, but he was alone with six civilians in tow and
none of his war herd at his side. They were all dead, and he knew it.

Which was why his own chromatophores betrayed no emotion beyond black. He had
filled himself with the grim resolve that the Hunters would feast on him only
when he was already a corpse, and that he would not die without first taking
down as many of them as he could. There was no room for any other feeling.

So far he had killed three, and had carved for himself a minor island of
tattered calm in the middle of the stampede and slaughter all around them.
Perhaps that was something to be proud of. Or perhaps his own mind was falling
apart. The homeworld, every year of the millennia his people had been, all of
that ancient history and heritage, it was all dying today. There was nothing
to celebrate in such a trivial accomplishment.

And yet…he felt proud of himself. He hadn't run. He had held, he had fought.
If only for a little while, he had defied the enemy. He could not succeed…but
he had not failed. Perhaps that _was_ something to be proud of.

Or perhaps his mind was falling apart.

His racing cyclical thoughts were interrupted by the shriek of more assault
pods impacting nearby, and he might have been perversely glad to hear them if
he had been able to think about it. Instead it took all the willpower he had
not to obey his screaming instincts and stampede.

The civilians were not so steady: The only one of them who did not immediately
stampede was the muttering clerk who didn't seem to register the horrors from
orbit at all.

For what little it was worth, Drutheg put himself between her and the most
likely source of danger and tried not to listen to the panicked, agonized
bellowing as the stampeding citizens were caught and set upon.

He'd already spent two of his grenades just collecting the frayed knot of
hangers-on that had just run away. He had _one_ left, plus a couple of smoke
charges. His war harness was at full shield strength, his pulse rifle was the
latest military issue with the more efficient heat sinks, and he had enough
food in his belly to fight.

If only it weren't so absolutely, utterly hopeless.

He knew his position was effectively surrounded. Whatever the Hunters used to
detect their victims would not have missed him or his collection of civilians,
nor the body-count of Hunters that he had left. He had the high ground and he
had a pulse rifle, but that was not enough against their shields, especially
the larger, more grotesque 'Red' Hunters.

The only outcome that had something that even _looked_ like a positive
attached to it, and even then only in the crazed light of futility, was any
one in which he left no corpse behind to be eaten.

That had him contemplating something quite alien to the Guvnargnaguvendrugun
mindset. Self-sacrifice.

He watched as the Hunters swaggered into the clearing, weapons up and
unafraid. They were _drooling_ and that sight steeled Druthegvurnag's resolve.
He contemplated his last grenade, turned the yield charge all the way up,
depressed the safety, turned it past safety-close, and charged with a bellow
of defiance.

It was no kind of a gesture at all, really. In the face of the sheer _scale_
of what was happening, one warrior's proud finale made no difference at all.

But if the Humans were right and there was an _'afterlife'_ for warriors, then
perhaps…

He was dead before he reached them. But a Guvnuragnaguvendrugun had mass, and
therefore momentum, so there was little the Hunters could do as the mammoth
warrior barreled into their midst--

The grenade exploded with enough force to level a small city block. Nothing
survived, not the hunters, not Druthegvurnag, and not the civilians.

Mercifully, the confused clerk still trying to remember her mystery society
never felt a thing.

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**HMS** **_Violent,_** **Guvendruduvundraguvnegrugnuvenderelgureg-nugdurnuveg system.**

**_Commodore William Caruthers_**

"…_Fuck_."

The fleet was at full strength. Everything humanity had, every ship they'd
ever built and captured, every single strategic asset Earth could bring to
bear was at Caruthers' command. Six V-class destroyers, thirty-six 'Bulldog'
USVs, HMS _Caledonia_, HMS _Myrmidon_, USS _San Diego_, the _Racing Thunder_,
no fewer than one hundred and eight 'Firebird' strike craft organized into
three squadrons, the nine humans and six gaoians who were cleared and ready
for HEAT operations. An effectively unlimited supply of nukes, anti-ship
missiles, 30mm FTL rounds, Aster 45 missiles, RFGs…he even had access to the
ultra-secret, as-yet unplayed trump card that was WERBS.

No commander in human history had _ever_ wielded the resources available to
him, and every spare bolt of it was useless. The Hunters had won this fight
before the humans had even shown up.

Hence his whispered, futile monosyllable.

The Guvnurag were being slaughtered down there--their formation and tactics
were classic Dominion, right to the core, and the Hunters knew how to handle
Dominion warfare doctrine just fine. More so, now that they'd figured out how
to add FTL capabilities to their railguns. The Swarm-of-Swarms was as mobile
as smoke and just about as easy to shoot, and their own weapons could strike
from so far out that the only limiting factor was sensor latency.

But it would have been a bloodbath even without that tactical superiority.
There were a hundred Hunter ships for every non-Hunter contact in the system,
and most of _those_ were freighters, mining barges, passenger shuttles. The
actual warships were outnumbered more than a thousand to one, and that kind of
numerical mismatch multiplied the _mass_ of the Hunter fleet, in the military
sense of the word.

Human doctrine focused on force multipliers; _mass_ was really a concept that
meant 'ability to impose force' and in that regard any human fleet element had
a mass that far outstripped mere gross tonnage, but here in this situation
there was no possible way to finesse that mass. Caruthers may as well have
fantasized about flattening the Himalayas using a team of dedicated men with
shovels--not even the best men with the best shovels would have sufficed.

Which meant the only feasible response was to inflict as much damage as he
could before withdrawing. And he could, in _theory_, inflict a great deal of
damage indeed.

But there were a _million_ ships out there. It was a number that defied
comprehension. A million _ships_. It was doubtful in the extreme that if he
were to tally up every single carrier, destroyer, submarine, cruiser,
battleship, gunboat, frigate, ironclad, clipper, galleon, caravel and trireme
ever constructed by the combined navies of all Earth's history that they would
even clear a tenth of that number.

He reached up under his flash hood and scratched despairingly at the back of
his neck while thinking over his options.

To leave without inflicting _some_ damage was unthinkable. Utterly
unthinkable. And yet…

And yet strategic assets needed preserving. There was no sense in wasting
resources on a token gesture and he had no reason at all to believe that these
million represented the entirety of Hunter capabilities. And there was
_certainly_ no sense in tipping their hand any further than it had already
been tipped--Every time humanity showed the Hunters a new trick, the bastards
picked it up and used it. He'd be damned if he would contribute to that
process today.

So, as unthinkable as effective inaction was right now…it was his only option.

He raised the Fleet Intelligence Center on _Myrmidon_.

The FIC, frankly, was possibly his most potent weapon. All those ships,
missiles and guns were of absolutely no use at all if he didn't know where to
aim them after all, and from the second they arrived the churning data engines
that IBM had kindly developed had begun digesting every last datum the whole
combined Allied fleet's collective sensors could generate.

The FIC was worryingly competent under the worst circumstances. Under optimal
circumstances, when networked with the lesser Watsons aboard all the other
ships, it was _terrifying_. Far too many people had joked about calling the
whole linked system _'SKYNET'_ and not without justification, especially
considering that the man holding its leash answered to the name and rank of
Lieutenant Connor.

They were looking subdued over there, and Caruthers couldn't blame them at
all. Of all the people in the fleet, the intelligence staff over in the FIC
were easily the best-informed about exactly what they were watching.

"Lieutenant. I need a target. _One_ target, if you please…and make it a bloody
good one."

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Vemik Sky-Thinker_**

The strangers were…Well, strange.

It was an obvious strangeness at first: They were the wrong _shape_ for a
start, tall and lean and straight-legged and most disturbingly of all they
entirely lacked tails.

And then the little details began to creep in. The strange terrain in the
middle of their faces, below and between the eyes that distorted their lips
upwards in the middle. They seemed to _breathe_ through it! And Vemik didn't
once see them flick their tongues out into the air to taste it.

Then he looked into those eyes and saw that the pupils were perfectly round,
as round as the sun and the moons rather than the horizontal slots of normal
People.

He'd still been mesmerized by those eyes when the slimmer, shorter one had
waved a hand in some kind of gesture at her partner and he'd been nauseated to
see that she had _five_ fingers! And so did the other one, too!

Those fingers were quick and clever, though. He watched them fidget
dexterously with objects that defied his understanding but which were
undoubtedly tools of some kind.

Every time they did, Yan somehow got tenser still. He was smouldering like a
particularly ornery coal, pacing where the strangers could see him, always
facing them front-on and ready to charge. That fact wasn't lost on the
strangers, either--neither of them had _actually_ put their weapons down,
Vemik noted. The woman had put hers away, slotting it neatly into a kind of
open-topped bag on her hip, but the other one was as long as a short spear.
The man was holding it loosely in his arms in as non-threatening a posture as
possible but it was still _there_…ready.

They seemed to be waiting for something.

Or, as it turned out, some_one_.

A third stranger joined them, stepping cautiously between the trees and this
one was not wearing that strange bubble of ice around her head, allowing Vemik
to get a better look at her.

Her face was more People-shaped than the others', though not by much--she
still had that strange feature in the middle and her mouth still had those
fuller, curiously contoured lips.

It was her crest that was the greatest surprise, however. Hers was the wrong
hue entirely, a deep lustrous black rather than the proper shaggy orange or
red, and it looked like she had gathered and tied it into a tight bundle into
the back from where it fell in a shimmering rope down as far as her hips. And
her _skin!_ Every inch of it that Vemik could see was pale, smooth and
delicate. Maybe shaded a little redder on the cheeks, a little darker around
the eyes, but overall it was a complete contrast to everything Vemik knew of
skin, which he had always known as being a dark, thick, tough beige thing.

The other two, he realized, were equally pale but it would be a mistake to
assume that their strange smooth skin was a sign of any weakness. While the
newcomer projected warm grace and peace, those two were both still as sharp
and watchful as sentries. They prowled like hunters and never relaxed. This
new one…

She paused in front of Vemik, _smiled_ at him so prettily that the Singer
would have made a jealous snarl had she been present, and then lowered herself
serenely into a kneeling posture that Vemik would have found awkward and
painful, but which she seemed to find effortless. She rested her hands lightly
on her knees and then dipped forward at the waist until her forehead almost
brushed the leaf litter.

Vemik had never seen anybody move with such effortless grace. When she
straightened up again and settled herself she did so with such poise that
Vemik, who could flip through the canopy like the wind when he wanted, was
made to feel lumpen and brutish. Even the way she raised one of those strange,
slim-fingered hands and brushed some stray hair from her face was composed and
precise.

He glanced to his father for guidance.

Vemet shrugged, and gestured toward the ethereal being in front of them,
inviting him to lead the way. "You're the sky-thinker, son," he said, "_you_
talk to them."

"It was your idea not to fight them," Yan added, with angry gravel in the back
of his throat. "…But I have my spear for you, if you need it."

"Thanks, Yan…" Vemik decided not to say how much he doubted they would need
the Given Man's weapon today.

He stepped forward cautiously and considered how to reply to her gesture,
whatever it had meant.

What _had_ it meant? That was the important part. She had knelt, bowed low,
exposed the back of her neck for a killing strike. She had intentionally made
herself vulnerable in fact. A gesture of peace, then?

Among men of strange tribes who did not know one another, Yan had once told
him, they would remove their knives of manhood and present them to one another
for inspection. How one greeted a _woman_ from a strange tribe he didn't know,
and certainly he had no idea how to greet a…a sky-person. Would she know to
return his knives? Maybe she would think the gesture was a threatening one…

Maybe the thing to do was to just…sit. There was no sense in being undignified
and trying to imitate her graceful contortions, but he could do something she
couldn't.

He squatted, and coiled his tail beneath him for a third point of contact with
the ground. A man could sit like that for hours quite comfortably.

The strange woman from the sky smiled again, then slowly reached into a pocket
on her strange garment and offered him something.

It was a disk. Round again, just as round as the moons, and made of some
substance he didn't know at all. It was white, and there was some kind of a
mark on it, a series of short dark lines that crossed and bent in strange
ways. He had no idea what it was and he glanced at the sky-woman in the vain
hope that she might be able to clarify.

She smiled, and mimed a curious motion with her hands-she cupped her left one
as if holding a small object about the thing's size, and the other moved as if
she was peeling a fruit, or…

Vemik considered the object again. Turned it over in his hands and looked at
its edges. One edge was clearly different to the other and after a moment's
deliberation he experimentally cupped it in his hand as she had indicated,
gripped it firmly with his thumb, and pried it open as she had shown.

His own face was inside.

He nearly threw it across the clearing in alarm and surprise but he chewed
back on the impulse and considered what he was looking at.

It was like…looking in a stream, or a puddle as he had done many times before.
The image of his own face looked back at him and moved as he moved. He frowned
at it, and saw his own frown. He cocked his head, and saw his image do the
same.

Like the ghost of himself he saw on water, but sharper, cleaner, more _real_.
He considered himself for a moment and took the opportunity to consider what
he must look like to a stranger.

Handsome, he realized. It was an odd thought.

Thoughtfully, he closed the object and handed it back to her while wondering
what she had hoped to convey by giving it to him. For her part she seemed
pleased, and he wasn't sure if he had passed a test of some kind or simply if
they were speaking two different languages.

She considered him carefully for a moment as she pocketed the item, and then
placed her hand on the middle of her chest with those strange, slim, five
fingers splayed.

"_Shyow._"

Vemik cocked his head, so she turned to her armed companions and gestured to
them.

"_Awisun. Jooyun._"

She turned back to face him and extended a hand in much the same way that
Vemet just had, and Vemik silently cursed himself for being slow on the
uptake. Of _course!_ when you met somebody, what did you do first?

He rapped his fist on his chest. "Vemik."

Shyow smiled brilliantly again and this time there was a friendly flash of
teeth. This one was a _real_ smile, a warm and genuine one rather than a
polite one. But if the fingers, the black crest and the odd _thing_ in the
middle of her face had been strange, nothing could possibly have prepared
Vemik for those teeth. They were straight, even, unnaturally white, small and
numerous. They looked like a child's teeth after they had first grown in,
sitting incongruously in the mouth of a woman who was clearly fully grown.

Something about the way he stared at them seemed to dismay Shyow. She raised a
hand to cover her mouth, which had the effect of making Vemik feel strangely
guilty somehow.

She lowered her hand again after a second once her teeth were no longer in
view, then twisted at the waist to retrieve something she was carrying in a
pouch low on her back. It was a flat, square rock of some kind which did
something utterly unexpected when she touched it on one corner--it lit up.

Vemik heard Yan grumble something behind him, but ignored it. The object in
Shyow's hands fascinated him as she tapped and swiped at it, making patterns
and shapes move and dance on its surface though he had no idea what she was
accomplishing.

People from the sky were strange.

In a few seconds, Shyow had arranged the rock's light to her satisfaction. She
set it on her lap, smiled at him again, then looked around, pointed at a
nearby Ketta tree, and spoke carefully.

"_Twee_"

Vemik glanced over his shoulder again and saw Vemet nodding.

So. These people didn't speak as the People spoke, they had different words
for things. He was going to need to teach them the words, and maybe learn a
few of theirs as well.

He sighed, took out his water skin to take a quick sip, then turned back to
Shyow, pointed at the same tree, and told her how to pronounce its name.

She nodded, tapped something on her rock, then looked calculatingly around
before pointing at a Nara tree, and repeating the word for tree.

"_Nara_ tree," Vemik told her. He pointed back at the first one. "Ketta tree,
Nara tree."

She nodded again, looked around some more then pointed at three trees of three
species "Twee**z**?"

It wasn't like teaching a child to speak at all. Shyow clearly already knew
how words worked, and she knew it _well_ too. Vemik only had to tell her
something once and then she'd tap on her stone, and ask a different question.
She looked around, pointed at a nearby boulder, and spoke a word. "_Wohk._"

Vemik nodded, taught her the tribe's word for a rock, and in short order she
had requested and been taught the difference between talking about one rock,
two rocks, three rocks, and more than three rocks. He taught her the different
words for men and women, for varying numbers of tree and the names of
different kinds of tree, the words for grass in general and individual grass
stalks, and the word for stone that had been worked into a tool as opposed to
raw, unworked stone. He taught her how to say "My name is," "her name is,"
"his name is" and so on and never _ever_ had to tell her something more than
once.

Sometimes she would look at her flat rock as if seeking guidance there, and he
got the distinct and crazed impression that it was somehow doing her
remembering for her. Which was…how could a _rock_ remember things? But then
again how could a rock light up?

Maybe the light was the secret? He looked at them again and thought _hard_ as
Shyow raised the stone and showed it to Jooyun, who nodded sagely as though
what he was seeing made perfect sense to him.

In his head, he was tying things together. The way that hunters would pile
stones or cut a notch in the bark of a prominent tree to mark where the Werne
roamed, or waters where Yshek lurked, to point back toward the village or
toward a safe trail down a cliff. Those were all things that a man _could_
remember, but which the right pile of stones, or the right mark in the wood
could remind him of…or tell him, if he had never learned it in the first
place.

So…he had successfully tied rocks together with memory. And he _knew_ beyond
doubt that the strange thing in Jooyun's arm was a kind of a spear-thrower, a
weapon for killing from afar.

Which meant…

He stood up and stretched from having been sat down a while, and asked a blunt
question.

["What do you have to do with _that?_"] he asked, pointing at the gutted
destroyer. Yan stiffened and shot the strangers a suspicious glare.

Shyow frowned and tapped something on her stone, then nodded. She beckoned to
Awisun and stood up, dusting leaves off her knees.

"…_Fwend_" she said, and gave Awisun an affectionate hug. Vemik nodded to
indicate that he understood, so Shyow stepped back then mimed vigorously and
hatefully attacking Awisun, who did something unexpected and giggled at the
ferocity of the pretend attack. Like Yan, Awisun clearly had a playful side
under that hard bark.

Shyow turned back to him. "_En'mee_" she said. When Vemik nodded again she
turned to the destroyer, scowled at it, and held her hands far apart. "[BIG]
_En'mee_."

"[So they claim]," Yan growled. Shyow looked at him, then gave Vemik an
apologetic smile before looking back to Yan again.

"**_Fwend._**" she said, clearly and firmly and pointed from her chest to
Yan's.

Yan harrumphed, turned away and headed back toward the village which left
Shyow looking…disappointed, perhaps, but certainly not surprised.

"Yan?" Vemik asked. He would have protested but now was not a good time to
pick any kind of a fight with the big Given Man.

["The Singer needs to hear of this!"]

["Let him go, son,"] Vemet advised. ["It's his job to not trust strangers."]

"[He's right, anyway]," Vemik conceded. ["The Singer _does_ need to see
this."]

He turned to Shyow and wondered how in the name of everything under the sky
and beyond it he was going to explain that they needed to pause and resume
tomorrow, but she seemed to understand already. She nodded and took a step
back, gesturing open-handed for him to follow Yan.

Vemik was honestly faintly awed. She seemed to effortlessly know his thoughts
and he didn't know if that was guilelessness on his part, or sharp insight on
hers. Either way, she stepped back and let him go with a confident smile.

Vemik nodded, and dashed up the hill after Yan. They had a lot to discuss.

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Allison Buehler_**

Julian ghosted forward to the edge of the clearing to check that the last of
the natives really had gone, and it was a long tense wait before he finally
looked back and nodded.

Xiu sagged and the ethereal, angelic being she'd been pretending to be for the
last several hours vanished like smoke. She seemed to lose a couple of inches,
even--the transition was that dramatic. Suddenly she looked small, nervous and
drained.

"Well…that could have gone worse I guess?" She commented, returning her tablet
to the elasticated pocket behind her back.

"Fuckin' A…" Julian's agreement was soft but heartfelt as he scanned the trees
while returning to them. "I thought that Yan guy was gonna twist our heads off
for sure. He looks strong enough."

"They all do," Allison agreed. "That coulda been real ugly if Vemik hadn't
stepped in like that."

"Yeah, and he's gonna pay for it," Julian opined. "Reckon Yan's their chief or
something, and I don't think Vemik's that old…"

"He's really young," Xiu appraised. "Like…_really_ young. I think if he was
human he'd be, um, maybe fifteen or so?"

"If they're anything like some human cultures back on Earth then that's old
enough to be seen as a man…" Julian mused. "And it looks like he's got the
respect and trust of the older men too. But he's still gonna have a hard time
if he undermines Yan too bad."

Xiu nodded exhaustedly and yawned. _"…Ai ya…"_

Allison wrapped her arms around Xiu's shoulders from behind and hugged her.
"Babe, you were incredible," she said. "Since when are you an elf?"

"Hmm?" Xiu blinked at her. "Oh, um…since Mrs. Marshall's drama class back in
high school. She had us act out some scenes from _Lord of the Rings_ and…" She
shrugged. "I guess those lessons stuck. I enjoyed that class."

"So what did the translator get?" Julian asked, leading the way back toward
the ship.

"A lot," Xiu said. She got out her tablet and frowned at it--they all knew the
core of the translation software was a Corti design, which possibly meant
there was some Hierarchy code lurking in there somewhere, but unfortunately it
was also centuries in advance of any equivalent human software. It could
extrapolate some astonishingly accurate predictions from meager principles,
and had begun making respectably near-miss best guesses at syntax and sentence
structure within minutes after Xiu had launched the app and started feeding it
the data it requested.

It had its limits, of course--there was no way to deduce the native word for,
say, "love" from the words for trees and suchlike, and the most sophisticated
translation it was yet equipped to spit out would be something along the lines
of _'Vemik, please give me three small brown rocks'_. For now they were
confined to the simple and the physical--abstracts weren't about to happen
anytime soon, but it already had the basic grammatical and conceptual
framework down. The rest was just vocabulary.

_Misfit_ was not far from the wrecked Abrogator's clearing, parked on the
gravelly bank of a fast-flowing clear little river. There had been an even
better landing site further upstream where the waters had pooled and formed a
small lake but Julian had asked Xiu to hover above it while he scanned its
waters, and sure enough he'd turned up a heat signature down there the size of
an orca.

With no way of knowing if it was harmless, territorial, or even some vicious
ambush predator they had given it a wide berth.

In hindsight, the change of landing site was doubly sensible: as well as
avoiding some of the larger local fauna, the river had cut quite a steep-sided
valley through layers of bedrock. _Misfit_ was well-hidden in that valley--any
other Hierarchy robots lurking around would have to pretty much trip over her
to find them.

Unfortunately, there was the problem of decontamination. This wasn't a green-
cycle job, all three of them had been out there for _hours_, on a world that
was landing firmly in the middle of the twelve-point somethings on the Corti
chart, putting it effectively on par with Earth. Vemik and his tribe might be
carrying the kinds of diseases that could rip through them with just as much
fearsome effect as scarlet fever, smallpox or tuberculosis, and of course none
of them were vaccinated against such alien diseases.

Therefore, they had to undergo an Orange decontamination--a full-strength
sweep with the biofilter field on full power, a heavy powdering and a thorough
sluicing-down with strongly chlorinated water.

For Julian and Allison inside their suits, that wasn't a problem. For Xiu, who
had chosen to wear her shipboard wear to make a good impression, it was eye-
reddening misery. She endured it with extensive grumbling and then stormed
toward the shower in the hab block the second the inner door opened, hell-bent
on showering away the stinging stuff immediately, especially before it had a
chance to bleach her hair. Uncharacteristically, she threw her soaked clothes
on the floor behind her with a wet slap as she went rather than delivering
them into _Misfit_'s laundry as she usually nagged Allison to do.

Allison briefly entertained the teasing possibilities of that, before deciding
against it. Xiu was going to have red eyes and a runny nose for a couple of
hours, now wasn't the time for teasing. Instead, she and Julian helped each
other out of their excursion suits with rather more care and stowed their gear
for cleaning and maintenance.

"Not gonna be able to do that too many times," she pointed out as she pulled
out the spent powder and chlorine cartridges from the airlock's reservoirs and
replaced them with charged ones. "We've only got enough of these for ten
orange cycles."

"The biofilter field can calibrate itself for local bugs," Julian said, doing
his part of going over the suit for any sign that the decontamination had
missed a spot. "We just need to get a couple of samples."

"What, like, get Vemik or Yan to stand in the field?"

"That'd be ideal, yeah. Give us a full medical scan in the bargain, the
scientists would _love_ that…"

"Sounds like a tall order, babe."

"The field should cope okay without," Julian shrugged, and gave her a wry
look. "Heck, when Kirk grabbed me from Nightmare, _Sanctuary_'s biofilter
fixed me right up just fine. Corti know their shit. Sticking a local in the
scanner'd just be…helpful. And hell, in a pinch a blood sample would do just
fine, but do _you_ wanna go ask them for some blood?"

"…Magic light in the flying metal hut it is, huh?"

"If we can, yeah. Except they maybe don't have a word for metal. I didn't see
a scrap of iron, copper or gold anywhere on them."

"Jeez." Allison closed the hatch and rubbed her forehead. "How do you even
_begin_ telling guys who have like one bow between them just how much trouble
they're in right now? I mean…"

"I know." Julian leaned against the wall. "But…I dunno, babe. They saw us
arrive in a flying thing and Vemik there figured out what a rifle does. Could
be, if a guy like that meets magic sky-people in a flying house who turn to
this thing and say _'BIG ENEMY'_…I mean, he's pretty smart. I bet it won't
take long to sink in…"

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Vemik Sky-Thinker_**

"Ya-an!" Vemik grunted and tried to work an arm free. "We are in _deep_
trouble!"

Yan grinned and applied a little more of his prodigious strength to painful
effect, while Vemet trilled nearby as he watched his son wriggle and fight to
get free. The big Given Man had Vemik pinned face-down in the dirt, both arms
held fast behind his back in one huge hand. Yan sat on his haunches with most
of his substantial weight on his left leg and the rest smashing the slight
young man's hips to the ground. His other thickset limb curled around and
under Vemik's stomach and crushed powerfully, while Yan's tail coiled tightly
around Vemik's legs and _squeezed._

It was all playful: Yan wasn't really mad, he was just…well, being a Yan.
Instead of a thrashing like Vemik had been silently dreading, Yan had instead
challenged the young upstart with a happy, boisterous hoot. Vemik accepted
with a grin--who _didn't_ like to tussle?--and lost the match _instantly,_
which was mildly humiliating even despite the huge difference in strength and
skill. Yan had pinned him almost gently too, with an insultingly weak hold
that _should_ have been easy to escape…but Yan was far too strong. He trilled
smug and happy and playfully dominant, while Vemik struggled uselessly to
escape. Showoff.

At any other time it would all be good fun, but right then, the Sky-Thinker
wished fervently for Yan to maybe _stop_ being a Yan and maybe start being a
Vemik instead. "This is _important!"_ he protested, and tried to lash his tail
around to get a grip on Yan's ankle.

Yan was too old, too big, too strong and far too experienced to fall for such
a simple maneuver. He whipped his leg out from under Vemik as fast as a
lightning strike, then stomped the writhing tail and pinned it with a
breathtakingly powerful squeeze of his foot-hand, drawing an involuntary yelp
from Vemik and another light amused trill from Vemet.

Vemik struggled on, which earned him a grumbling approval from Yan. In
response he settled his full weight on the young man's hips, which earned him
a loud groan of pain and a desperate look to Vemet, who smiled even bigger and
trilled in sympathy. _Every_ man in all the neighboring villages knew defeat
by Yan, Given Men included. He tightened his grip with all four hands to the
point where he felt the young man's body spasm slightly underneath him.

"Give?"

Vemik shook his head defiantly. That amused Yan, who wrapped both his legs
around Vemik's stomach, squeezed _mightly_ with legs and tail, then leaned in
and pressed Vemik's arms as far up his back as they could safely go. That
hurt. A lot.

But Yan wasn't done. He muscled himself up and forward, then whispered,
"Y'know, I could go a _lot_ harder if you want to test yourself, Sky-Thinker…"
Vemik struggled briefly then gave in with a pained sigh when Yan _yet again_
tightened his grip. In fairness, he relented the instant that Vemik
surrendered. He sat back on his haunches and loosened his crushing leg-and-
tail smash to Vemik's groaning relief, though he still didn't let Vemik
wriggle free.

"You _always_ think sky-thinking is the most important thing, Sky-Thinker,"
Yan growled affectionately before letting go. "Think down here in the dirt
with the rest of us, sometime."

"I _am!"_ Vemik objected, as he was roughly spun around and helped up to his
feet. Yan ended the match with a painfully affectionate hug and a rough rub of
Vemik's crest, which he took with a grumble as he dusted himself off. He tried
not to bristle--Yan had worked off his bad mood playfully and in good humor,
but he wasn't about to let a much younger man give him that kind of attitude.
"Yan, they said--"

"I heard." Yan took a sip from his water skin in a _we-do-things-at-my-pace_
way, taking his time over it. He shook his crest out and made a scoffing noise
in the back of his throat. **_"Big_** _en'mee."_

Vemik tried not to scowl. The impression had not been charitable.

"Yan, they have--" he began again, and this time Yan gave him a flash of
fangs.

"I'm not blind, Sky-Thinker. They have weapons and a flying…_thing_ and a rock
that makes light and the sky only knows what else. I saw. And they claim that
thing is their foe, and if people like _that_ have a foe, a _'big'_ foe…" he
made that scoffing noise again "…Then we may as well be fighting gods. Is that
what you're about to say?"

Vemik gawped at him, then found a new objection. "…Aren't you worried? I
mean…Shouldn't you be?"

Yan shrugged expansively, and turned back up the hill toward the village
again, setting a brisk rolling pace that left Vemik and his father struggling
to keep up. Most of the other men had already straggled out across the slope,
partly for scouting purposes, partly to hunt if the opportunity presented
itself, partly to give the tribe's undisputed leaders their privacy.

"Worry about what?" he asked. "Is there anything we can do? That skithral-
thing the two of you killed--" he turned and nodded respectfully to Vemet,
"wasn't moving. If it had been, you would both be dead and so would the
village. Am I right?"

"…I guess…?" Vemik conceded, slowly.

"Those people down there are either the enemy, or they're the enemy's enemy.
Now, some people are stupid enough to think that a shared enemy makes you
friends, Sky-Thinker…"

"But what if they _are?_" Vemik asked. Yan rounded on him for about the fifth
time in their short walk so far.

"They are **_not_**," he snarled. "They are _death,_ Sky-Thinker. They bring
tools and magic we don't know from a place we could never go and claim an
enemy we could never fight. Things will never be the same after today."

"But what if things are better after?" Vemik asked. "What if they…what if they
teach us their magic and tools, or how to make huts that shine in the sun and
fly?"

Yan shook his head and turned away again. "What did you teach the boy, Vemet?"
he asked. "A man makes his own spears, hunts his own meat and provides for his
own children. If the boy wants a hut that flies, he should learn how to make
one for himself, not go begging to strange thin people from the sky to make it
easy."

Vemik should have bristled. To be called _'the boy'_ twice when he had the
knives of manhood he had won himself strapped securely to his chest…But he
sensed that now was not the time for that fight. Instead, he met Vemet's eye.
"…You've been quiet so far, father…" he observed. "What are you thinking?"

Vemet mulled the question over, and replied slowly. "I'm thinking…that if I
had never taught you how to make a spear, you wouldn't have figured out how to
make that spear-thrower of yours. And when you teach that to your son, what
then?" When Yan glared at him, he shrugged and spread his hands wide. "Men
teach their sons how to hunt so that their sons can be _better_ hunters than
their fathers," he pointed out.

Yan stood for a long moment and thought. At length he took another swig of
water and grumbled, "Vemet's got wisdom in his head." He looked at Vemik and
bared his fangs in a friendly sort of lopsided snarl, "I can see where you get
it from."

So. Vemik still had Yan's respect but his patience was badly worn. That meant
that Vemik needed to choose his words carefully.

"We _are_ still alive, Yan," he pointed out. "That means something."

Yan flicked his ears and nodded. "Sure. It means we've got _strange gods_ down
the hill in a flying stone hut and we have no idea what they want or how to
even talk to them. And they're maybe fighting _other_ gods that want to kill
us all. Does this strike you as _safe?"_

"…No. But that means we really only have one choice. We need to talk with
them."

"Oh, sure. We go talk to the gods! Do you know what the problem there is? We
need to pray and sacrifice and put our Dancers and Given Men through _awful_
things just so the gods _notice_ us. What do we do if we anger these strange
People? Are they gods? Does it matter?"

"If we do nothing," Vemet observed thoughtfully, "we _still_ risk angering
them."

Yan barked angrily. "This would have been easier if you'd just let me rip them
apart," he grumbled.

Vemik nodded warily. "Yes, and if you did you might have been killed by
those…weapons of theirs. And don't forget about the skithral-things. What
happens when they wake up?"

Vemet answered for him. "We die."

There was a long and uncomfortable pause.

Vemet cleared his throat. "So. We had better make friends, so we know where to
stand."

Yan sighed loudly and shook his head. "Godshit! Why us? Why now?"

Vemik only shrugged.

"Right. Well. I guess the three of us need to meet with the Singer and figure
out what's the best way to keep these god-People happy and not inclined to
kill us."

Yan stomped up to a Ketta tree, walked up its trunk, then swung towards the
distant village.

That was a sure tell that Yan was straining against a _very_ bad mood.
Normally he wouldn't tackle a Ketta like that because it could damage the
thick bark and the People respected the trees. While most anyone else had to
climb a Ketta with their hands and feet gripping the huge trunk, a few Given
Men were so strong and their feet could grip so powerfully that they could
simply walk up trees as if they were just a particularly steep hill. That left
their hands free for other things and Yan's were flailing as he grumbled
angrily to himself, lost in distracted thought.

Vemik and Vemet looked at each other. "You better go after him, Sky-Thinker."

Vemik nodded and chased behind. The Given Man had already swung across the
wide gap between the huge Ketta and its neighboring twin, which was so big a
distance that Vemik could only climb up and jump down from a great height.
Smaller men like him preferred lesser trees like Nara. They grew closer
together and didn't need nearly as much _oompf_ to cross the gap.

That did mean it was _work_ catching up to Yan, who seemed pointedly
uninterested in Vemik's graceful yet exhausting efforts through the upper
branches to catch up.

"Yan! Wait, please!"

Yan turned around, settled himself on a massive branch at the bottom of the
tree, and presented himself squared up with Vemik. "What!?" That time he could
not hide the exasperation in his voice.

Vemik caught up, panting, then squared himself up as well. "Yan…I'm sorry."

Yan blinked, then sort of…fell into himself. Vemik boggled. Yan was a man's
man, one everyone looked up to and wished they could be. He was handsome and
playful and an unmatched hunter. His perfect, bright red crest stood tall and
straight from head to tail. Every line of his body was big, tight, plainly
visible and _better_ than any other man.

It was amazing how something as simple as sagging shoulders and a less
threatening, laid-back crouch on his haunches could transform someone like Yan
from the most impressive man Vemik had ever met, into something merely big and
rounded and…tired. Tired, and maybe a little melancholy.

He sighed deep in his chest and gave Vemik a contrite look. "I know…You did
good today. Godshit, you probably saved our lives."

Vemik didn't know what to say to that and stood there, slightly embarrassed.

"…And I'm sorry too," Yan added. "I saw your look when I called you 'boy.'
That…was disrespectful. You didn't deserve that."

"Yan--"

"No, I mean it. A man owns up to his mistakes. It doesn't matter if only two
years ago you were still riding on my back and asking _so_ many questions."

Vemik scratched at the back of his head, where his crest met the nape of his
neck. "I never really stopped, did I?"

Yan trilled sharply and recovered most of his usual Yan-ness and Vemik
suddenly found himself swallowed up in a big, friendly hug. "No, you didn't!"
He noogied affectionately for a playful moment while Vemik squirmed
fruitlessly, but the moment passed all too quickly. Yan sobered up, gave Vemik
a hard look, then held the smaller man's shoulders.

"Maybe take a little advice from a big, useless Given Man like me. Sky-
Thinking and wisdom aren't the same thing. Don't spend so much time with your
head _up there,"_ Yan pointed straight up, "that you forget the dirt beneath
your feet or the woman in your hut. Or your child, or your friends…or us."

"I won't!"

"I know." Yan gave him a genuinely warm look, and explained. "Everybody has
their strange ways, Sky-Thinker, and everybody needs reminding of it
sometimes. _You_ need to think of us _first_ and not your gods-ignored burning
curiosity about _all_ the things. Can you do that with these strangers?"

Vemik nodded seriously.

Yan trilled softly and warmly. "I know. I always did. But we Given Men, we
can't help but worry like that. It's our nature."

"But why? And why do you get so _big?_ And why is there only one in any tribe?
And why--"

"Vemik!" Yan shook his head, radiating indulgent frustration.

Vemik deflated. "…Sorry. But will I _ever_ know why?"

Yan gave him his most serious look. "Gods, I hope not."

Vemik couldn't refuse his impulse to grumble unhappily, but he finally held
his peace.

"Anyway. Come, we need to make good time back to the village and we only
have…" Yan squinted at the sun, "…one finger of the daylight left." Yan gave
another aggressively playful snarl, "I'll race you!"

Before Vemik could accept the challenge, Yan turned and charged through the
Ketta trees' bottom-most canopy like an angry bull werne. Vemik trilled softly
to himself then grinned, swung over to the better Nara trees, and chased after
his friend.

All, he hoped, was forgiven.

**Date Point: 12y3m AV**  
**Guvendruduvundraguvnegrugnuvenderelgureg-nugdurnuveg system, Capitol system of the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun Confederacy**

**_The Alpha-of-Alphas_**

Time, and obsessive analysis of Human tactics and philosophy, had radically
altered the way that the Alpha-of-Alphas thought about certain important
things. Once not so very long ago it would have been pacing in futile rage at
the thought of missing out the grand Hunt going on far below it. The Brood of
Broods was broadcasting the ecstatic high of the hunt through every channel as
they tore through the population below in a frenzied orgy of delighted
feasting.

For the Alpha-of-Alphas to miss out on such carnage would once have been
unthinkable. But its thoughts had been so _small_ then. It had seen only the
meat, and the maw, and the claw and the prey. Its understanding of what a Hunt
truly was had been constrained by simple fleshly appetites.

Since the battle of the prey-station, it had transcended such trivialities.
Now, while lesser Hunters gorged themselves on mere meat and blood, the Alpha
of Alphas congratulated itself on this successful hunt of a whole _planet_.
Today, it had struck a grievous maiming blow to the large furred prey and left
a wound that would never heal--the scar on an entire species would always be
there.

Delicious.

Doubly delicious. The Humans were out there, watching. It didn't know where,
exactly--they were truly accomplished predators when they chose to be, and had
elected to stalk and be watchful for the time being. They were unquestionably
choosing their moment to pounce.

Let them pounce. No matter what they chose to strike, they could inflict no
real harm on the Hunters, not with any of the tricks or tools they had yet
chosen to show. They most certainly had others, of that there was no doubt,
but if they did employ something new, then the Alpha-of-Alphas would learn,
again. Would expand, again.

Would feast, again.

It was so engrossed in metaphorically salivating over the prospect of what it
might learn that it almost missed the moment when the humans chose to show
their token of defiance. It was over in a flash, literally in a flash. There
was the most minute and guarded distortion of spacetime and the largest slave
transport ship in the Swarm-of-Swarms was immediately gone, along with its
crew of seven thousand Hunters.

Not gone: smashed. It took the Alpha-of-Alphas nearly ten minutes to piece
together the precise sequence of events and after it had done so it reclined
what little of its flesh remained within the cradle of its command edifice and
considered what it had just seen.

Much of its body was gone now. This was nothing unusual for any Hunter of any
seniority: the natural claws were usually the first to go, swapped for a
universal cybernetic mount capable of bearing any kind of weapon from fusion
claws and heavy pulse rifles to nervejam launchers and even plasma guns.
Superior eyes, superior limbs, superior bones, muscles and nerves. Everything
about a Hunter's organic form was weaker than they wished to be. There was
catharsis in personal transformation.

The Alpha-of-Alphas merely occupied the pinnacle of an obsession shared by all
of its kind--the will to dominance. Now that its dreams of dominance
encompassed whole species and their worlds, and had assembled a fleet of
millions, an army of billions and the poised tidal wave of a species that
viewed itself as the force of nature, ready to crash down on everything else
and remind them where the _real_ power lay in this galaxy…

Such a will to dominance demanded more than better claws and teeth. It
demanded that its claws be whole spaceships, that its eyes and ears be scout
craft.

Increasingly, the Alpha-of-Alpha's proprioception was less and less aware of
the truncated shreds of meat resting restlessly in its command facility, and
increasingly it viewed its body as _being_ the Swarm of Swarms.

And now the humans had torn off a scale, or bruised a finger. An irritation,
certainly, but one that inspired interest rather than outrage. It was always
entertaining to see how the deathworlders struck.

On close examination, the tactics and equipment used were nothing new. The
Human Alpha must be aware of its foe's hunger to learn and had sensibly
withheld any new information. The fact that the materiel and maneuver involved
was nothing new didn't make it in any way less effective, however. The humans
had fired an extreme long-range shot from somewhere out in the extreme reaches
of the system, at such a low warp velocity that its passage had barely
registered at all. They must have fired it _hours_ in advance, in fact, and
yet it had neatly drifted through the appropriate volume of space with
commendable precision.

It hadn't actually hit anything, of course. The slightest drift or
acceleration at such ranges was enough to ruin even the most careful firing
solution…but it had been close enough. The jump beacon carried by that round
had fired up, and a claw of the Human strike ships had pounced through, lit up
the transport ship with targeting sensors, summoned their weapon with
millimeter precision, and departed in a pulse of bent reality all in a shorter
interval than it to took the Alpha-of-Alpha's heart to beat three times.

The weapon had been nothing special, either. An ordinary hydrogen-based fusion
weapon in the megaton range, shaped to blast the great majority of its
destructive energies out as a coherent lance of high-energy EM radiation that
had torn the transport ship into two melting and partially vaporized uneven
halves. Crude and low-tech, but very few things in the galaxy had the kind of
defenses that could withstand energies on that scale.

It forwarded the data to the Alpha Builder. Meager pickings from the humans,
but the builders were drooling to sink their fangs into the prey-species data
banks and pick apart the secrets of the system shield technology. With
scrutiny and time, surely a weakness would reveal itself.

It watched as the last few fortunate contacts flickered out of the system at
FTL speeds, and peeled off a few pursuit ships to run down the slow and
limping. Not all of them, though: The fastest, the healthiest, the strongest
it let go to carry the word of what had happened here. When the sensor records
and video footage they carried began to circulate, the panic would spread
through the prey herds like a burning disease.

Finally, it relaxed. It sank back into the sensory feeds from hundreds of
millions of Hunters below…And it feasted.

**Date Point: 12y3m1d AV**  
**Allied Extrasolar Command, Scotch Creek, British Columbia, Canada**

**_General Martin Tremblay_**

Some events were so huge that the usual system of talking over video calls
wasn't going to cut it today. Sometimes, when a good officer was in the
hotseat to justify his actions, then the resulting meeting needed to be done
_properly_. No phone, no big TV screen. Just a handful of the most powerful
people on the planet, sitting down for a solemn talk.

Commodore Caruthers had not, in Tremblay's view, done too badly from what he
knew of the situation. The total loss to humanity's military from the
operation was a single, expendable, Nuclear-Pumped Highly Directional X-Ray
Laser.

Sooner or later, somebody was going to want a stylish acronym for those
things. It was a dull name for one of the deadlier weapons in their arsenal,
and that weapon had been deployed to excellent effect. It had entirely
shredded a spacecraft that dwarfed even oil supertankers. Even for the Hunters
that had to be a loss that stung just a little.

But when one considered all the hundreds of thousands of ships that said
attack had left perfectly unscathed and still ravaging the surface of the
Guvnurag homeworld even while they sat here…It really didn't seem like enough.

Sartori was having trouble containing himself. The president was usually a
poised and garrulous man who was well-equipped to keep himself afloat in the
sphere of public opinion. He wasn't, it seemed, so great at handling the
revelation that all that military spending that had so bedevilled his
presidency to date wouldn't have achieved jack shit.

Tremblay could hardly blame him. Sartori wasn't _exactly_ taking his
displeasure out on Caruthers, he wasn't so unreasonable as to assign blame
where it wasn't due, but Caruthers was certainly the conduit through which the
president's rage at all of Hunterdom was being channeled. He was bearing it
remarkably well, considering that he was technically under no obligation to
bear it at all: As a British officer his commander-in-chief was the King, not
Sartori, but he was diplomatically choosing to ignore that fact.

"Yes, Mr. President. The tactical situation was hopeless, as we've reviewed.
The best I could hope for was some form of moral defiance, in the hope the
Guvnurag would understand the gesture."

"Well, it backfired!" Sartori had cooled substantially in the last few
minutes, but he was still boiling. "That transport was full of prisoners, and
now they're accusing us of contributing to the slaughter."

"Meat-slaves, Mr. President," Caruthers delicately corrected him. "Those
prisoners would have been reduced to livestock in short order. We have the
statements from Mother Ayma, Sergeant Regaari and miss Chang about that
escaped Gaoian slave a few years back, Triymin."

"A fate I wouldn't personally wish upon my worst enemy," Knight interjected,
quietly.

Sartori sat back, disgruntled. "The Guvnurag don't share our definition of
mercy," he pointed out. "As far as they're concerned, that bomb cut-and-dried
killed some of their people. And to hell with the circumstances, apparently."

Caruthers nodded understandingly. "No matter what we had done, we would have
been vilified," he observed. "If I'm to be damned, I'd rather be damned for
doing the right thing at least…by _our_ standards."

Tremblay and Knight exchanged the almost-psychic glances of old friends, and
saw their private approval of that sentiment reflected in each other's careful
poker faces. Sartori meanwhile was getting steadily less red in the face.

"That's not to say I didn't find it a bitter pill to swallow, Mr. President,"
Caruthers added, and Sartori finally backed off him.

"…I follow your reasoning, Commodore," the president said at last. "I guess
you're right, too. How do we even _begin_ fighting a million ships?"

Tremblay had no good answers, there. "We have to play the long game," he said.
"The fact is, that we're at an insurmountable logistical disadvantage. We only
have the resources of Earth, realistically: Cimbrean isn't developed enough
yet to count. Fortunately, both systems are secure against the kind of attack
that hit Guvnurag-One, but…

"…But who _knows_ how much territory the Hunters really hold?" Knight finished
for him. "A race where one side has an enormous head start is no race at all."

Prime Minister Philippe Martel finally ventured to say something. "We don't
have any idea at all?" he asked.

"Neither the Dominion nor the Alliance have ever successfully mapped any part
of Hunter space. All their scout ships vanish if they stray beyond a certain
point, but that's about as defined as the limits of Hunter territory gets,"
Tremblay explained. "We know _roughly_ where their home ground is and
_roughly_ how many cubic parsecs it encompasses, but there's no clear or
reliable way to identify how many habitable worlds are inside that volume, let
alone any orbital structures, space stations, asteroid facilities…"

"In other words, we have no idea at all," Martel repeated.

"We don't _really_ know a damn thing about our enemy," Tremblay agreed. "In
fact we know so little about them that we don't even know what we'd need to
beat them."

"_If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a
hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory
gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor
yourself, you will succumb in every battle,_" Caruthers quoted verbatim.

"…Sun Tzu?" Martel guessed.

"Yes indeed," Caruthers nodded.

"The closest _he_ ever came to a spaceship was a few observations about
chariots," Sartori pointed out.

"True," Tremblay granted, "but this is _old_ warfare, classic warfare right
back to basic principles. He'd still take one look at this situation and say
that we don't stand a chance if we try to fight the Hunters directly."

"And indirectly?" Sartori asked. "Or is the Supreme Allied Commander for
Extrasolar Defense telling us to bend over and kiss our asses goodbye?"

"Indirectly…" Tremblay met Knight's gaze, then Caruthers', and saw that both
men still had plenty of resolve in them.

"…We'll work on it," he promised.

__

**Date Point: 12y3m1d AV**  
**Mrwrki Station, Erebor System, Deep Space**

**_Lewis Beverote_**

Lewis had found the station's master systems console inside the first week
after arriving on Mrwrki. To his quiet joy it hadn't been holding pride of
place in the middle of the control room or anything, no: Like all the best IT
infrastructure he'd found it tucked away in an overcrowded office a long way
from where all the _'important'_ end users worked.

While booting it up he'd amused himself with the mental image of a Kwmbwrw
systems tech boredly instructing some super-senior Matriarch to try turning
the faulty hardware off and waiting ten seconds. That amusement had turned
into a frown when it requested an eight-digit numeric passkey for access.

More out of despair and the spirit of at least making a token attempt than
anything else he'd half-heartedly entered "12 345 678" and to his shock,
delight and disgust he had immediately been granted top-level Admin access.

Poking through the station's OS had turned into one of the things he did for
fun when he wasn't designing an asteroid-eating, planet-hopping engine of
unstoppable galactic conquest. That quiet fun had turned into obsessively
cataloging everything wrong with the horrific mess of half-assed shell scripts
he'd found in there in place of a sane or sensible system. In some ways he
felt like a lepidopterist with a whole _planet_ of alien butterflies to wave
his net at, and in other ways he felt like a particularly morbid surgeon
poking at a uniquely purulent abscess. Either way, it had made for a grossly
fascinating diversion.

One of the worst bugs would actually let anybody who knew it exploit their way
through any door on the station. He'd let that one live mostly because he had
a horrible feeling it was caused by something in the life support controller,
and no _way_ was he fucking with that. Besides, it was a pre-existing bug in
the code and he could hardly be blamed if he "forgot" to mention its existence
to the Army dudes in all the excitement could he? It wasn't like he'd ever
planned to use it or anything…

Except that Vedreg wasn't answering his door chime, and hadn't been for
several days.

Hold down the door chime, the five button and the intercom, wave his lighter
under the air vent and….

The door hissed open. It SHOULD have sounded the fire alarm as well, but that
was part of the glitch. It was something to do with the fire containment
protocols and the way they interacted with the emergency escape pod access.
Apparently Kwmbwrw engineers had never invented the VLAN, or even the concept
of isolated networking in general, which was a head-shaker _par excellence_
and had given him a funny twitch in his eye for the first few days after he
realized it.

To his immense relief, somewhere in the darkened depths of Vedreg's quarters
there was a deep sighing sound and the sound of somebody huge moving slightly.

"…Go away, Lewis."

Crazily, Lewis almost obeyed. Vedreg _never_ used anything less than a
person's full name, or their honorific and surname. That was just…who he was.
That was his way.

Which meant that his friend was at the worst he'd ever been, and who could
blame him?

He stepped inside and closed the door behind him. "Dude…"

His eyes adapted to the gloom quickly. It wasn't _completely_ dark in Vedreg's
suite of rooms: the little lights he'd put up around Nadeau's little Bob Ross
oil painting and the black pseudo-glow of a monitor in standby mode were
enough to give some shape to the darkness, just enough to make out the shaggy
furred mass of his friend huddled in a corner.

Guvnurag couldn't help but wear their hearts on their sleeves, as it were.
Their body language literally glowed, and there was always _some_ small amount
of bioluminescence visible along their bodies, even when they were at rest and
feeling no particular emotion at all.

Vedreg's chromatophores were completely inert, a sure sign of a Guvnurag in
the grip of soul-wrenching despair, grief and depression.

They pulsed the barest, almost invisible hint of red as he repeated himself
wearily. "Go _away_…"

Lewis ignored him. Instead, he sat down at Vedreg's side and reclined into
him. Guvnurag wool was thick, shaggy and smelled faintly like a clean barn,
but it was warm as hell and damn comfortable.

"Lewis…" Vedreg was clearly too numb to work up a real emotion at all, but
ghosts of red, blue and pink shot all over him as he thought at length about
what Lewis was doing…and then surprised green.

"…Are you…weeping?"

Lewis nodded slowly, and dragged a sleeve fiercely across his nose. He'd been
holding it back around all the military types, but…here in the dark, it seemed
safe to sit back and let it all hit him.

"I know…fucking stupid, right? Not like it was my homeworld, right?" He had a
bitter touch in his voice, and Vedreg drew away slightly to give him an even
more confused look with the short tentacles around his mouthparts waving
uncertainly. "Not like billions of people are dead. Not like my friend's
hurtin' and there ain't fuck nothin' I can do for him. Ain't like…I…"

Vedreg went very still as Lewis' voice got caught and wouldn't come unstuck.
There was a long, defeated, silent moment and then an imperceptibly faint glow
returned to his chromatophores. It was a confused off-white, but to anybody
who knew how to read Guvnurag, there was a definite blue-ish tint of gratitude
in there.

Slowly, his enormous pillar of an arm circled out and drew Lewis into a warm
enveloping, woolly hug.

They co-miserated in silence until Lewis had long since run out of tears and
was quietly growing desperate for a drink when Vedreg finally spoke.

"Tears seem…cathartic."

"Guess they are…" Lewis scraped some dried salty stuff out of his eye. "Shit
dude, I dunno. Not like they _do_ anything…Not like _I_ can do anything"

To his surprise, Vedreg rumbled and for a second a flicker of _mirth_ of all
things literally lit the room.

"…Dude?"

Vedreg sighed, and stood up. "I have found that it is the small every-day
deeds of ordinary folk that keep the darkness at bay. Small acts of kindness
and love," he said in the special tone he used when quoting.

"…Dude?" Lewis repeated himself, feeling stupid.

"Tolkien. Gandalf. I read those books after the name for this system was
settled upon. It was bewildering at first: I do not know what an elf is or how
a keyhole can be hidden except in a specific light, and much of what I read
was strange and impenetrable, but there were thoughts that…resonated." He
shook himself and glanced at Nadeau's painting. "Especially now. Thank you for
reminding me of them."

"…I never read 'em," Lewis confessed. "I ain't read much of anythin', TBH." He
added, pronouncing the abbreviation.

"Oddly, that is comforting." Vedreg sighed again, and shook himself. The dim
hue of a Guvnurag in a neutral state of mind reasserted itself--perhaps a
little dimmer, perhaps a little grimmer, but _back._ A human might have rolled
up his sleeves--Vedreg just shuffled around in place and his mouthparts
shifted enigmatically behind that thick fringe of wool and tentacles as he
considered Lewis for a few seconds.

"We should get back to work. There are ten billion souls to avenge," he
announced.

"Dude. That was almost fuckin' _human_ of you."

"Thank you."

"Well, shit." Lewis kicked his feet out and surged upright. "Transform and
roll out, my man."

"I beg your pardon?"

"Hey, you have your quotes, I have mine."

Vedreg fell in alongside him as Lewis led the way. "I thought you said you
haven't read much?"

"Dude. All the best life lessons come in cartoon form, everyone knows that."

"…You are very strange, Lewis Beverote." Vedreg stopped, and put a hand on
Lewis' shoulder. "But you are the best friend I have ever had."

Lewis was amazed to find that his dehydrated eyes got wet again. He patted the
huge hand on his shoulder gently, then hugged the arm it was attached to and
turned back towards the workshop.

For once, he couldn't think of anything to say.

**Date point: 12y3m1d AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Xiu Chang_**

Julian and Allison had left the helmets behind today, and had taken their
excursion suits down to just a handful of the parts of its modular system.
They looked more like they were wearing thick parkas now, which was definitely
friendlier-looking than the full suit.

The natives seemed to find Allison's hair fascinating. They'd had the chance
to get used to Xiu's black hair, and Julian's was pretty much the same color
with less gloss and more mess. Allison's, though, was a cold blonde ripped
straight from some well-hidden Scandinavian pocket of her genes.

It made for a more relaxed meeting, which was good because the natives had
brought one of their women down the hill this time, and from what Xiu could
tell she was _important_. She had vivid red tattoos around her eyes and
cheekbones, and if the similarity between human and native body language held
true then Vemik was absolutely besotted with her.

Julian cleared his throat when it became apparent that the alien, like her
male counterparts, was wearing no more than a leather loincloth. Her body plan
was _very_ human in some important regards.

"Huh. Guess we shoulda maybe expected this…"

Allison chuckled. "Don't stare, baby."

"She's an alien monkey, I'm not--"

"Uh, racist?" Allison snorted, and winked at him.

"Oh come _on_--!"

"Relax, Etsicitty. I'm only teasing."

"I'm just thinking they're probably all surprised at how much we're wearing,"
Julian shot back with a grin. "Maybe you two should get topless."

"Lead by example!"

Xiu tried to effect an air of disapproval but mostly she was shaking with
suppressed laughter. "Guys! First contact? Serious business? Hello?"

"Hey, nobody ever said first contact couldn't be fun…" Allison pointed out.

Julian had a pensive expression. "Seriously though? Might not be the worst
idea I've ever had…It'd prove that we're flesh and blood, y'know? We don't
want them thinking we're gods or whatever…"

"Maybe later," Xiu muttered.

"Translation: Not on your life," Allison smiled, then straightened up as the
last of the natives settled in opposite them in the clearing. "Time to go to
work, _bǎobei."_

Xiu nodded, and summoned that whole ethereal elf thing she'd done yesterday.
She didn't go through the whole routine of kneeling and bowing this time, but
instead plumped for settling herself comfortably on a small rock and smiling
at the natives.

Vemik and the female glanced at the adults, and especially at Yan, who
shrugged and made a gesture that said _'well? Get on with it.'_ in any
language.

They really were young, Xiu realized. The female was probably about Vemik's
age or maybe just a little older, which raised all kinds of questions. What
kind of a society let their teenagers do the talking? Or was there something
special about these two?

The translator was nowhere near ready to start answering those questions yet.
It wasn't ready to start _asking_ those questions, not after just one
conversation and a few hours to process and crunch the data.

Happily, it had reported near-perfect confidence on the syntax, which was
broadly similar to the Indo-European language family. That was good news for
Allison and Julian, neither of whom spoke a second language--Xiu's experience
in mastering three _very_ different tongues was the very reason it fell to her
to handle this stuff and gave her the confidence to assault any alien syntax,
but the fact was that even she was going to struggle with this one.

The native language was…she hesitated to think of it as primitive, but it
really was. It was absolutely packed with the oddities that littered old
languages, like gendered nouns and consonant mutations, but at least the
morphology of the root words was broadly consistent. It was the tangled
thicket of prefixes, suffixes, stresses, mutations and tonal shifts that gave
her a headache.

Names were among the biggest oddities. Vemik, she had discovered, actually had
_two_ names, one of which was _Vemik,_ a proper noun, and the other of which
was a common noun followed by the noun form of a verb, and he seemed equally
happy to use either name.

More confusingly still, he introduced his female companion as "the [singular
noun form of a verb"] without further explanation, but using the tonal tic
which clearly designated it as being her _name_ rather than her role or job.
With a bit of goading, the translator was able to tentatively suggest how Xiu
might inquire if the woman had any other names, but the reply was a
straightforward no.

They settled in for a long and rambling discussion, driven by the translator's
hunger to codify all the rules of their language and expand its vocabulary. It
was gripping and fascinating stuff…for the three people involved.

For everyone else, it was a long and excruciatingly dull morning.

They stopped for a break around noon, which was when Julian announced his
Plan.

"I'm gonna go hunt something," he declared.

"Hunt? I thought we were gonna stick to the food on the ship until we know
it's safe?" Allison asked.

"Not for us, for them. Kind of a peace offering, and…never mind. Point is it
should make a good impression."

Xiu and Allison frowned at each other. "Never mind?" Xiu asked.

"It's…nothing important. Kinda dumb really. Never mind."

"Julian…" Allison had an impatient-patient tone of voice that could crowbar
him open in a second when she used it.

He cleared his throat. "I…kinda want to one-up Yan."

Allison folded her arms at him. "Since when were you into senseless macho
posturing?"

"It's not posturing. It's…" Julian trailed off, then reconsidered. "Well,
okay, it _is_, but this kind of posturing is important. We're on his turf, in
his territory, and he saw that we were scared of him. I wanna fix that."

"I…Julian, we don't know what kind of taboos they have or…" Xiu began.

"Trust me." He kissed her on the cheek. "I've got a pretty good idea already."

"Okay, but what if Yan thinks you're challenging him or something?" Allison
asked. "That could turn this whole thing ugly pretty quick."

"Nah. Not with Vemik and…what's her name?"

"The Singer," Xiu told him. That one had been pretty easy to get to the bottom
of in the end. "She's their…Shaman, or priestess, or medicine woman? I asked
her what she sings about and I _think_ she said _'the gods'_ but the
translator has a really hard time with words like that."

Allison put on a wry roll of her eyes. "Figures, if the Corti programmed it."

"Well, you're talking to Vemik and this Singer of theirs," Julian continued.
"And I figure things were already pretty damn ugly when we first met and they
chilled out thanks to Vemik, so…"

"They're at home to reason, at least," Allison said.

"Right. I wanna see how Yan reacts. Getting the measure of him is gonna be
_important."_

Xiu hesitated, then nodded. "You're right. Be careful, _bǎobei?"_

"There's nothing on this planet that's scarier than me," Julian grinned. He
gave them both parting kisses, turned, and vanished between the trees more
quickly than mere distance and line of sight would seem to suggest.

Yan's reaction was instant and interesting. He straightened, watched Julian go
and started to head after him before he seemed to remember something and
instead turned to the lean one who looked like an older version of Vemik and
said something. The other man nodded, turned, swarmed easily up a tree as
comfortably as Xiu would have opened a door, and swished through the low
canopy like a breeze as he headed off to follow where Julian had gone.

Allison made a thoughtful noise, and broke out their lunch. They'd debated
briefly about the wisdom of using their MREs--Xiu had been worried about how
the locals might react to the "magic" of a flameless ration heater--but
between the ship itself, Allison's tactical flashlight, the tablet and its
translation software and everything else, it had been a short argument.

"…hmm…Beef chili? Maple pork sausage? Or vegetarian fettuccine?"

"Uh, _Canadian?"_ Xiu grinned at her, and was promptly handed the pork
sausage.

Sure enough, Vemik couldn't help himself. He came close and stared rapt at the
thin lines of steam as they poured from the little plastic packages leaning
against a rock. His tongue flickered out at one point just like a reptile's;
he winced at the distinctly chemical smell that the heater gave off, and
backed away from the pouch a little to consider it some more.

"There's a joke here," Allison said. "You know that old one about the dog with
no nose?"

"Come on, they don't smell that bad," Xiu objected. "Just…musky."

"Well, okay, sure, he doesn't exactly smell like fifty used jockstraps on a
hot day but I don't think these guys do bathing a whole lot."

"I bet humans didn't smell so great either, ten thousand years ago."

"I'm just saying, I was promised hot springs…"

Xiu glanced up at the mountain. "Julian thinks there should be some around
here…"

"So why don't these guys use them?"

Xiu was about to shrug and promise to ask about it later when a sharp _crack!_
sounded far out among the woods, echoing oddly between the trees. All the
natives surged to their feet--Allison waved a reassuring hand.

"It's alright!" she called. "Julian! Julian." she mimed aiming a rifle and
made a "pkh!" sound with her mouth.

Yan snorted, but the tribe relaxed again. Vemik gave her a curious look.
"Jooyun?" he imitated the rifle mime and the sound she'd made.

"Like, uh…" Allison pointed at the bow on his back, then mimed drawing and
firing it with another vocal sound effect. She repeated the rifle mime again
and then wobbled her hands to try and suggest a connection.

Vemik trilled, which they'd gathered was his species' version of laughter, and
nodded. He grinned and pretended to shoot several things with a rifle and
trilled some more. Both Allison and Xiu giggled along with him.

Xiu adjusted her MRE as they sat and thought. "We have a long way to go," she
said suddenly.

"Hmm?" Allison obviously didn't have any insight into her train of thought,
and only heard a non-sequitur. "On what?"

"On these guys. Their language, it just doesn't have some of the things they
need for us to explain what's happening here. Like…imagine if English only had
about a thousand words or so."

"So? We came here from above the sky in a flying house because some very bad
people want to kill them all and we want to stop the bad people." Allison
shrugged. "Simple."

"And the cybernetic implants? Nukes? Or just aliens in general? I mean…"

"No, I get you. They look like apes and that's helping, but when there's
things like Gaoians, Rickyticks and Guvnurag out there…"

"Right." Xiu nodded. "And…I mean, I was never really into sci-fi, that was
more my brother's thing, but I at least knew what an alien _was_ when I was
abducted, and what a human was. These guys don't even have a proper name for
themselves."

"They don't have a word for their own species?"

"They don't have a word for species. I mean, they could tell you the
difference between a…" Xiu checked her tablet, "…a Werne and a Yshek, but
they've never put a word to the concept before."

"Never had to, I guess."

"Right. Vemik's bow? He calls it a bird-spear-thrower. They say their village
is up on the high-forest-place…except they don't _really_ have a word for
forest, it's just the word for tree modified into an indefinite plural
pronoun…"

"Babe, I don't make your head hurt by talking about the Nadeau-Alcubierre
field, you don't make my head hurt with language jargon. That's the deal,
remember?" Allison smiled at her. "But I get what you're saying. They don't
have the concepts."

"They don't have a word _for_ concept!" Xiu was getting animated. "Which means
they probably don't have the concept of concepts!"

"Shyow?"

They both turned to Vemik, who was giving them a concerned look. ["Are you
angry?"]

["No. Vemik, we…"] Xiu rubbed her face and desperately consulted the tablet.
"…dammit. I don't know if they have a word for 'concerned' or not and even
then I couldn't tell them what we're concerned _about_ and…"

Allison scooted over and hugged her. "Breathe, babe. You're gonna give
yourself a panic attack."

She was right, and Xiu closed her eyes and took a few cleansing breaths while
Allison used the translator to compose the halting sentence ["We can't tell
you what is bad today."]

She frowned when Xiu giggled at the mangled sentence. "What?"

"You said you can't tell him what _'bad'_ is."

"Good thing he's a smart one." Vemik had needed a second or so to parse the
disjointed grammar, but he gave a reluctant nod--a weary one, like he was used
to getting that answer a lot--and backed away to go sit with the Singer again.

They ate their meals in a thoughtful silence, interrupted only by Allison's
failed attempt to steal some maple sausage. Vemik approached, apparently
curious, and Xiu finally agreed to trade him some in exchange for a sample of
what turned out to be a flavorful pemmican with dried fruit.

The peacemaking ended when Julian returned to the clearing with a sturdy
creature that looked like the offspring of a goat and a small cow flung over
his shoulder and the native man who had followed him rolling along beside him
in the swaggering, thick-thighed way the natives did. Both men had blood on
their faces in finger-painted lines around their eyes and cheekbones, and
Julian was looking decidedly pleased with himself.

"Werne," he announced with a grin as he handed the rifle back to Allison. "A
good one too, if Vemet here is any kind of judge."

["_Good_ Werne,"] Vemet agreed, nodding enthusiastically. ["Young, but strong.
Your man can hunt well."]

Xiu gave him a smile. ["Thank you!] He says you're a good hunter, babe."

"Well, if a caveman monkey fella says that then it's gotta be true." Julian
looked across the clearing at Yan, who had straightened up again. He cleared
his throat, crossed the clearing cautiously, and put it down in front of the
big _'Given Man'_.

Yan gave the carcass a long and thoughtful stare, then aimed an even longer
and _more_ thoughtful one at Julian. Eventually, slowly, he drew the knives
sheathed on his chest and presented them to Julian hilt-first. Julian looked
at them carefully, thinking, then imitated him. He reached for the knife
sheathed against his own thigh and presented it to Yan, and the two traded
implements in the same diplomatic moment.

Allison just couldn't resist a joke. "Oh God, are the boys comparing their
tools?"

Xiu frantically gestured for her to shut up. "Yes, and this is deadly serious.
Don't laugh."

Julian had strong and work-hardened hands with blunt fingers but Yan's bulky,
heavy knifes would make any human hand look dainty. They were well-balanced
and clearly made with a great deal of care--the handle was polished and
charred bone and wood, and the blade was flint-knapped down to a smooth,
polished finish. There was nothing unsophisticated about them that Xiu could
see, and when Julian returned them hilt-first he did so with obvious approval.

Meanwhile, it was the steel blade that seemed to fascinate Yan. He turned it
this way and that to watch the light sheen off the metal grain, then ran his
thumb experimentally across the edge. He cut himself shallowly and issued a
surprised grunt, then handed the blade back with an air of respect.

The men of the village had watched the entire exchange in intent silence, and
as Julian withdrew Yan gave him another calculating look then re-sheathed his
knives. He stooped next to the Werne, grabbed it with two hands and one of his
feet and _effortlessly_ dismembered it with a trio of sickeningly loud
_cracks_ that reverberated around the clearing.

He didn't even watch what he was doing, but instead seemed to be trying to
stare Julian down. After a second though he seemed to decide that he'd made
his point and turned his attention to the Werne, which he worked a little bit
more before offering a meat-stripped thigh bone. Julian paused for a second
and Yan snapped the thick bone in half with a snarl that by now _almost_
looked friendly.

Seconds later, both men were slurping down raw marrow with every sign of
enjoying it.

"Urgh…Think I'll stick to beef chili…" Allison muttered, for Xiu's ears only.

"You never tried Nava," Xiu retorted, though she was feeling a little queasy
herself. Julian hadn't even _hesitated._

Yan relaxed considerably, and made some quick calls that sounded vaguely food-
related. Right away the men of the tribe were busying themselves around a new
pit, and shortly thereafter they had a start on a fire, with the unfortunate
Werne being taken apart to roast. Vemik watched for a moment, then devoured
the rest of his pemmican and returned to his spot, and sat on his coiled tail.

Julian and Yan parted ways with an air of newfound respect, and Julian
rejoined the girls looking pleased with himself. "Who needs translator
software, huh?"

"Ugh, boys." Allison snorted, though her face said something very different
and more positive.

_"Raw_ marrow, though?" Xiu objected. "Ew."

"Warm from a fresh kill," Julian beamed. "Kinda buttery and nutty, really
rich…saved my life on Nightmare. Sure, it's a better idea to cook it but…" he
glanced back over at Yan. "When in Rome…"

"Can we maybe stop taking stupid contamination and allergy risks now?" Allison
pleaded. "This planet's a solid Class Twelve, that means the bugs and
parasites here have gotta be about as bad as Earth's. I _really_ don't wanna
have to cart you guys home to an isolation ward locked in a stasis field."

Julian considered. "Maybe we can get Vemik and Yan to step into the decon
scanner, then. We need the scans and I bet Vemik would geek out over the
anatomy display."

Allison nodded. "Babe, if you can talk angry silverback daddy there into the
magic sky people field, do it," she said. "But until then, it's ship food only
from now on. Doctor's orders."

"How do we do that?"

"Well, we're all monkeys, right? Monkey see, monkey do. And maybe candy."

"Um…" Xiu cleared her throat. "We should probably talk about the language
problem."

Julian sat down, and grabbed the last MRE. "Oh _man,_ you left me the
fettuccine? I thought you loved me?"

"Julian!"

He quit joking around. "…Okay. Language problem," he nodded, tearing the pouch
open without bothering to heat it. "Fire away."

"Have a look at this." Xiu handed him the translator tablet. "Projected
vocabulary size."

He frowned at it. "That's…not a big number."

"That's a _really small_ number," Xiu said emphatically. "And they're missing
some really important words, too."

"Like?"

"Well…they don't have a name for themselves. Not a name like Human, or Gaoian,
or Corti or whatever."

"Not surprising, I guess," Julian mused. "There's gotta be so few of them in a
tribe they've never needed to define themselves versus everything else."

"Yeah, but that's just one of lots and lots of kinds of word they don't have.
I don't think they have even _half_ of what they need for us to be able to
tell them about…everything."

"…This is a Prime Directive problem, isn't it?"

Xiu nodded. "Yup. And we can't even tell them that. That's how bad this is."

Allison was spreading cream cheese on one of her crackers. "Not like Big Hotel
left many options. These poor fuckers were extinct anyway, guys. Not our fault
if their world's about to get turned upside-down, at least they'll still
_have_ one. Right?"

"That's a sobering thought," Julian said between mouthfuls of noodles. "But, I
mean, okay. We can't leave 'em to die. That'd be just as bad as, I dunno,
'interfering with their cultural development' or whatever, wouldn't it?"

"Bet you my share of the mission cash I could find _some_ fuckwit on Earth
who'd argue we should just leave 'em go extinct," Allison said. "But yeah. If
it's adapt or die, I say we help them adapt."

"How?" Xiu asked. "There's just too many…the things they need to know, their
language just can't--"

"So we teach them English. Carefully," Julian raised his hand to forestall a
tidal wave of objections, "We start out just, really really Barney-style,
right? Simple, practical things. Start with storytime like you do with
kindergarteners, and--"

Allison shook her head. "You're overthinking it, dummy. I'm starting to think
our Vemik here might maybe be smarter than all three of us. So how about we
just teach _him_ English?"

"And then what?" Xiu asked.

"And then we let him do what he does best: Ask questions."

**Date Point 12y3m2w AV**  
**Whitecrest Clan Office, Alien Quarter Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Champion Genshi_**

Whitecrest's stock in trade was political analysis. Oh _yes_, they dealt also
in the application of low-visibility violence, in surveillance, monitoring,
intelligence, espionage and sometimes assassination but as far as Genshi was
concerned those were all just the claws. The claw was the sharp bit, the bit
that cut the wound, left the scar, spilled the blood…but without a strong and
skilled arm behind it, a claw was just an unpleasant little shard of keratin.

Politics. The claws were there both to facilitate gathering information
_about_ the political situation, and to facilitate influencing it. Everything
the Clan did was about politics, sooner or later. It followed therefore that
Whitecrest had become very good indeed at not only reading the politics of the
here and now and retrospecting upon the politics of yesteryear, but more
importantly had mastered the art of projecting how events would unfold in the
future.

And, most importantly, the art of saying the right thing to the right person
at the right time to bring _preferred_ events to pass. Hopefully. Nothing was
fixed, after all.

The right person in this case, on the surface, might have seemed like a deeply
unlikely candidate. She was young, inexperienced and frankly not the most
cunning Gaoian alive. She was _perfect._

She was also, to borrow a human turn of phrase, drop-dead gorgeous. Although
Gaori had some words that meant things _similar_ to _'Amazonian,'_ it was the
English word that fit Myun best: It implied a warrior mentality and poise that
was absent from its closest Gaori equivalents.

She wasn't stupid either, or else they'd have found somebody else. She was
guileless and straightforward, but she had trained for years to be a commune
guard: She had a nose for deception, risk and _'bullshit,'_ and seemed to be
disconcertingly resilient to Genshi's charms.

"I don't think you actually have that authority," she was observing as she
slouched in the seat opposite him and watched him thoughtfully with her ears
twitching and fine-tuning themselves as she thought.

"Not since Regaari was released from Giymuy's service," Genshi said. In fact
they hadn't _actually_ had the authority to select the Mother-Supreme's
personal guard even before then, but Whitecrest had…influence.

"…Why me? I'm a junior commune guard. The Mother-Supreme deserves the best."

Genshi flicked an ear in a calculated show of amusement. "You _are_ the best,
Sister Myun."

"_We_ know that," Myun agreed with no trace whatsoever of arrogance, "but
don't you have to…" she peppered the sentence with another word in English,
"_like,_ prove it or something?"

"I _am_ a Champion, Sister Myun."

"And **why** is the Champion of Whitecrest sponsoring me to be one of Yulna's
personal guard?" Myun pressed.

Genshi saw an opportunity to test her, and took it. "Why do you think?"

"Well, obviously you think you'll need me. Why else? You're not doing anyone
any favors. But _why_ do you need me?"

Genshi had struggled with that same bluntness during the week or two he had
spent training with her. Myun had informed her that the style she had
developed after studying under Sister Shoo was quite different to what the
human Sister had taught her. What she had learned from Shoo had been specific
regional styles that were heavily tied in with religious and spiritual
practices. _'Baguazhang'_ and _'Taijiquan,'_ apparently.

To these, Myun had added…basically everything. She had obsessively studied
human martial arts of every kind as well as she could considering the extreme
distance involved and the relative isolation and paucity of human data, and
had compared them to existing Gaoian forms.

The result was something that a human could never have learned: their bodies
were the wrong shape. Shoo's _Baguazhang_ was apparently all about steady
feet, planted firmly and moving independently of the upper body. But a human
could do that - their center of gravity was low, their legs were
proportionately long and accounted for a surprisingly large percentage of
their mass.

Gaoians on two-paw teetered around a high center of gravity and Myun _used_
that to drive movement through the whole body. She would flow easily from two
paws to four and back while her long Gaoian dorsal muscles twisted and coiled
her torso this way and that, swaying her body out of harm's way while her paws
diverted incoming blows aside. It was innovative, and _effective,_ and so
novel that it took Genshi nearly five days before he could score a hit of any
kind. It was only on their final day that he had scored a pin _at all._

To his regret, while she'd admitted to being impressed with his speedy
progress it hadn't resulted in a Contract. Myun was still young, still
recovering from her first cub and apparently felt that there was no point in
_having_ a Clan that empowered the Females and afforded them their autonomy if
all they did with that autonomy was spend their lives producing cubs.

She was in short a deeply unconventional creature, which probably came with
being every inch her sire's child right down to the smell. Nobody who knew
Daar could fail to notice that she had his unique musk in feminine form.

And like Daar, she knew how to play the great game of politics just fine and
didn't give a stinking wet fart for it.

Oh well. There was nothing to be gained from playing it coy.

"…the Clan has learned things. Things that must remain secret for now and, if
we do our job right, will remain a secret for a very long time."

"Can you tell me what these things are?"

"Yes," Genshi admitted. "But it involves a lot of paperwork and binding legal
agreements and it's one of those things you'd probably be unhappier for
knowing. The fact that we think the Mother-Supreme needs a bodyguard like you
should be enough to tell you how serious this is, though."

He watched Myun watch him, and added "…Incidentally, the humans are very good
at personal protection. We would almost certainly want the Mother-Supreme's
bodyguard to…shall we call it _'comparing notes'_ with them?" he asked,
carefully deploying the English words like a garnish. That particular phrase
had an exact equal in Gaori, but Myun had pleasantly big and clearly-labelled
buttons to push.

She knew it, too, and chittered sharply. "…That's _shameless_ manipulation,
Champion Genshi…I'm in."

Sometimes, Genshi had to admit, the straightforward approach was refreshing.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Diplomatic Ship** **_Rich Plains,_** **En Route to Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Ambassador Furfeg_**

"I remember the last time this ship had a human aboard…"

The _Rich Plains_ was a very different ship than had flown fatefully to Gao
all those years ago. It had spent nearly two of those years, by the Guvnurag
calendar, confined to drydock undergoing both repairs from the violation of
its structure by a Hunter broodship and long-overdue upgrades and refit. A
footnote in its long history to be sure…but a significant footnote.

Furfeg could well recall the look of awe that the young miss Xiu Chang had
unrestrainedly shown while gawping her way around decks that, to his seasoned
eyes, had seemed shabby and badly in need of improvement at the time. He
wondered what she would make of the ship now, with its new polished dark grey
stone floors, its clean burnished fixtures and clear aquamarine lighting.

That mission had not been half so important as this one…nor half so grim.

In the months since the homeworld fell, there had been no follow-up attacks on
the remaining planets of the Confederacy. The homeworld was lost, but her
calves had been reinforced and permanently enclosed behind the newest and most
impenetrable barriers that Guvnurag science could produce. The turnaround on
designing and deploying the upgraded devices had been lightning-fast by the
standards of any species, but _especially_ by the standards of
Guvnuragnaguvendrugun.

Something about the slaughter or enslavement of the largest third of the
species served to focus the mind. For a lucky few, the focus had been on what
it was they personally could achieve to avert a greater tragedy.

For the great majority, that focus had twisted loose and unattached like a rag
in the storm, until it had found something to coil itself around in the form
of _anger_.

The Guvnuragnaguvendrugun were an emotional people. They wore their feelings
openly on their body. But they were also a docile people who roused to anger
and to violence only with great difficulty. Some were practically incapable of
it. To see anger at all was unusual in their society, but now it was a
contagion that was sweeping their cities and stations and their citizens by
the hundreds of millions.

Furfeg would have preferred that it be directed at the Hunters. _They_ were
the monsters here, after all. _Their_ ships had devoured the homeworld and
uncountable civilians. But being angry at the Hunters was like being angry at
a lightning strike, or a howling gale. They were a destructive force of nature
that was not at home to the emotions of an aggrieved species, even if they
were capable of understanding those emotions.

…No. The analogy was not apt. Storms and winds had neither desire nor sadism.
The Hunters were no force of nature, they were _worse;_ they _wished_ to be
hated and feared and so the collected terror, grief and rage of billions was
worse than impotent, it was a victory for them.

Thus, yet again, all of that anger and fear had earthed itself where it did
not belong: In a species that Furfeg knew in his belly was utterly blameless.
A species who were militarily superior to the Guvnuragnaguvendrugun in every
conceivable way and yet upon whom a few strident voices, outraged and grieving
to the point of insanity, wished to declare war.

A species whose representatives would shortly address the assembled Grand
Matriarchs and Patriarchs of the All-Herd. For all their sakes he could only
hope that they would prove to be Xiu Chang's equal or even her better in
matters of eloquent passion.

He turned an eye toward Shipmaster A'tkrnnmtktk'ki, whose quiet comment had
belatedly roused him from his thoughts without really registering.

"…I am sorry?"

"I said, I remember the last time this ship had a human aboard,"
A'tkrnnmtktk'ki repeated. "Gao. It's been a long time, hasn't it."

"I was just thinking about that myself," Furfeg admitted.

"I hope this time goes better…"

"It went extremely well last time. We survived."

Furfeg had noticed that about himself in the last few months: his humor was
darker and drier. Whether that was a refuge for him, helping him overlook what
had happened to his home and his herd…

He decided not to dwell on it, or at least _tried_ not to: There was
productivity at hand, which was usually a useful balm for any aching ego…but
the itch was there in the back of his mind and constantly sending motes of
depression, anxiety and shock glinting down his body atop a slow, steady pulse
of gnawing background tension.

He practically radiated relief when the human escort fell in alongside them
with an easy muscularity that made the _Rich Plains'_ respectably fifty
kilolights seem like little more than a pleasant stroll. Insofar as starships
had body language, however, theirs seemed…subdued. Rather than leveling their
noses with that of the much larger diplomatic ship and sweeping in tight to
show themselves off, they instead held back almost a kilometer away, and
towards the relative rear of the formation.

Possibly that was a difference in protocol and decision-making or possibly it
was some subtle expression of thought on their captains' parts. Impossible to
tell.

Furfeg _should_ have spent the remaining distance to Cimbrean reviewing the
diplomatic notes, but for some reason it just didn't happen. Instead he stood
there in the dark of the ship's opulent observation deck and used the
stargazing fields to zoom in on the human ship to port.

It was almost impossible to see. Indeed it probably _was_ impossible to see,
and only the virtual outline in bright orange let him know it was there at
all, and that was no help whatsoever in helping him determine its shape. The
silhouette was blunt, efficient and shovel-nosed with the stub of what was
possibly a command or sensor tower of some kind mounted off-center and three-
quarters of the way back. Beyond that, the ship was featureless beyond five
bright lights at its nose which prominently lit the name painted there:
_Vigilant._

He read the translation of that simple word several times, mulling it over
until he was roused from his meditation by the quiet ship wide announcement to
the effect that they were shortly to be arriving at Cimbrean Five, and that
the ship had entered final deceleration.

That last part was a feature found only on civilian or diplomatic vessels
designed for comfort. Military and commercial ships simply kept their warp
field at running power until they reached their target coordinates before
immediately and seamlessly rejoining their destination's inertial frame of
reference. Efficient, but it had the disconcerting effect of making planets
and other celestial bodies simply slam into existence right next to the ship
as if they had simply appeared from nothing.

The _Rich Plains_ however made its final approach on a slow and steady
deceleration curve that actually brought it below the speed of light during
the last minute or so. Thus, the destination planet swelled into view and
seemed to slow to a halt beside them, so as to avoid startling any passengers
who were unfamiliar with the incomprehensible apparent speeds involved with
FTL travel.

The strange perspective of the vacuum of space combined with the inconceivable
scale of any planet so that although Furfeg knew that he was watching
something immense from a great distance, he _felt_ as though Cimbrean-Five,
with its static-charged crystalline silicon sandstorms that would have reduced
even a human to bloody shreds within seconds, looked more like something he
could reach out and pluck from the sky to study in the palm of his hand.

Armstrong Station meanwhile was just small enough to look very, very big
indeed. It had begun life as a perfectly standard Dominion trading outpost,
but the Humans had clearly felt that the design needed improving. Indeed, they
were still improving it. With the stargazing fields, Furfeg could detect
stuttering points of light on its structure that, when he zoomed in on them,
turned out to be figures in bright yellow armored suits moving ponderously and
carefully as they worked, usually involving the flare of welding or possibly
of cutting.

How had they happened so _fast?_ The Gaoians had exploded onto the galactic
scene with such unmatched drive and ferocity that they had become members of
the Dominion Security Council at a speed that had alarmed and dismayed other
factions that had lobbied for decades or centuries for the opportunity.

The humans in many ways were much less…ambitious. From what Furfeg knew in
fact the overwhelming majority of their focus remained on local tribal matters
back on their war-torn homeworld. The number of their species who had
travelled into space was a trivial minority of only a handful of their most
historically powerful and wealthy factions.

And yet, that minority _of_ a minority had achieved almost unbelievable things
under immense pressure while petitioning for little.

The thought of what might happen if the galactic community pushed this
particular species too hard was what had placed Furfeg firmly among the
peacemakers. He had seen first-hand what a single human could do when properly
motivated: He had no desire whatsoever to see a practical demonstration of
their nonsensical idiom about the whole being greater than the sum of its
parts.

He spun away from the window and prepared to receive the ambassador.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Shuttle, en route to diplomatic ship** **_Rich Plains,_** **Cimbrean System, The Far Reaches**

**_Ambassador Anees Hussein_**

Doctor Hussein sometimes struggled to remember what his home country had been
like in his youth. He had memories of opulence and wealth--or, at least, of
clean white buildings with clean fountains and lush foliage--and of attending
the University of Baghdad alongside pretty young women with hair that they
wore openly and skirts that ended above the knee. He'd married one of them.

Decades of grinding war had reduced those memories to a question. Had Iraq
_ever_ really been that place? From the comfortable distance of a well-earned
retirement where he had quietly outlived the projections of even his most
optimistic doctor, he had found it hard to find visions of the land he had
once called home that didn't focus on the dust, the bombs and the suffering.
For years, weak leaders from across the globe had thrown people onto that fire
like new logs, in the vain and misguided hope of extinguishing it. _All_ of
them had lacked the will to truly fix the problem, and had snatched their hand
back from the flames the moment they began to feel the heat.

Such a waste. The old regime had needed to go, but it had needed _replacing._
Properly and comprehensively, not merely torn down and the wreckage left for
whomever could claw their way to its top. Democracies took root slowly and
only in the deep fertile loam of stability and civility. They took decades to
nurture into being: The thirsty, stony, weed-choked stuff that was his
homeland's political substrate simply couldn't support one yet.

Perhaps one day, years after a Caesar had ridden through and made the place
work the less civilized way, the time would be ripe to start coaxing something
more humane to life, but that day wouldn't come in Doctor Hussein's lifetime.
In any case, he knew that he himself had never been a Caesar: More of a
Cicero.

Or perhaps a Mark Antony, as Shakespeare had envisioned him. A man who, with a
few barbed words and raw emotion had reversed a crowd's anger completely.

He allowed himself a small smirk at the thought, amused by the way that his
education in classical European history sometimes got the better of him. It
had seemed like a fascinating and exotic subject when he had first taken it,
but it was astonishing how the ideas and histories had settled in and
radically re-written his way of looking at the world.

No wonder the aliens were scared of the human race. Some ideas just…_infected_
a person and stuck there.

"Docking in three minutes, sir."

Hussein glanced at the man in the black suit who had spoken and acknowledged
the update with a grateful nod. The SOR had made it known, delicately, that
they felt a little snubbed by his decision not to take them for his personal
escort--they not unreasonably felt that security wherever Cimbrean, aliens,
spaceships and the Hierarchy overlapped was their responsibility--but they
were rather too…overt for this occasion.

He looked forward out of the pilot's window at the columnar hugeness of the
_Rich Plains_ as they swept in toward a comparatively tiny landing deck that
Guvnurag sensibilities had placed only just behind the diplomatic vessel's
blunt prow. He wondered if that was for reasons of practicality or reasons of
making visiting dignitaries such as himself feel important.

Probably the latter, he decided. It was difficult to imagine that a high-
traffic working landing deck intended for the humdrum business of taking on
food and supplies would have such pristine polished stone for the shuttle to
alight upon.

The pilot sat back and stretched as the tractor fields took over and guided
their shuttle down to a gentle touch that explained the unscratched flooring
perfectly, and Hussein hauled himself to his feet with a groan of exertion.

"Well," he said, and adjusted his spectacles. "Shall we?"

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Diplomatic Ship** **_Rich Plains,_** **Cimbrean system, The Far Reaches**

**_Ambassador Furfeg_**

The sight of a _frail_ human was an incongruity that was almost enough to
unbalance Furfeg all by itself. The human ambassador shuffled from his
transport with a bent back and a gleaming wooden stick for support and for a
second he seemed like he must be a member of a different species. Surely
_this_ decrepit specimen could not be a deathworlder?

But he had those same human eyes. Amber brown in a hue that, to a Guvnurag,
spoke of liveliness and indeed behind their corrective lenses those eyes were
active and watchful without being wary. And somehow he managed to make the
larger, stronger, younger specimens of his species who accompanied him fade
into the background.

Furfeg shook the disconcerting impression loose and took a number of careful
steps forward. This was no unregarded castaway girl: When the Guvnurag had
contacted the humans to demand an explanation of them, _this_ was the man whom
the humans had chosen to make their case. Presumably, he was in the presence
of somebody who held enormous respect on Earth.

Or possibly he was an avatar of human contempt. That seemed unlikely from what
he knew of humans, but the long years had taught Furfeg never to trust that an
individual might represent the whole species.

He raised a hand to his chest in greeting. "Ambassador Hussein. Welcome aboard
the _Rich Plains_. I am Ambassador Furfeg, the Confederacy's permanent
representative aboard this ship."

The Ambassador imitated the gesture. "_Salām._" he said, curiously
untranslated. He clearly sensed Furfeg's surprise, because he provided a
translation immediately. "It means _'Peace,'_ in the language of my home."

That boded well, in Furfeg's estimation. He pulsed a welcoming medley of warm
yellows. "The Dominion ambassadors will be joining us from their embassy
station in a few hours," he informed the human. "There is a diplomat's
residence suite available for your use, and we have increased the gravity in
that section to Earth standard for your comfort."

"Most kind," Hussein thanked him.

"There will be food available," Furfeg added, "But I must apologize,
Ambassador: we do not have carnivorous options on board."

"That is quite alright," Hussein assured him. "I have been a strict vegetarian
for most of my life."

The translator tripped over the word _'Vegetarian'_. The linguistic detour
necessary in the Guvnurag language to specify the subtle distinction between
innate biological herbivorousness and voluntary vegetarianism took a full
seven seconds, and Hussein wore an expression of polite interest throughout.

Feeling increasingly rattled for no good reason, Furfeg stepped aside and
gestured invitingly for the human and his entourage to come aboard properly.

He was stymied again by Hussein's frailty. Guvnurag were not a quick people by
any measure, but the human ambassador took each step carefully and
deliberately as if he was afraid that he might fall and suffer a grievous
injury at any second. There was simply no hurrying him, but his entourage
seemed entirely comfortable to amble easily along behind the ambassador.

Furfeg, meanwhile, found himself taking one step for every ten of the human's
and he _still_ had no idea if he was the target of a studied insult or not.
Hussein himself certainly made no mention of it.

Shipmaster A'tkrnnmtktk'ki salvaged the situation masterfully. Furfeg read the
update from his Rrrtktktkp'ch colleague on his ocular implants' virtual
overlay and saw the wisdom in it instantly.

"Ambassador…" he began delicately. "The captain of the _Rich Plains_ has
requested to give you a personal tour of the ship before the delegates arrive.
The ship is rather large, however, so he has offered the use of a small
personal transport…"

"That is very kind of them," Hussein said, pausing. "I hesitate to impose on
the captain's generosity, but as you can see my legs don't quite work as well
as they once did…"

"He assures me that the vehicle will be available for your use throughout your
stay, Ambassador. As a personal token of his esteem." A'tkrnnmtktk'ki hadn't
become shipmaster of the _Rich Plains_ by accident. Indeed, he was an
accomplished diplomat himself, and had worked small wonders in support of
Furfeg for many years.

"The captain is most generous."

By the time they reached the door, the vehicle had arrived and Hussein settled
gratefully onto a part of it that looked deeply uncomfortable to Furfeg's
eyes, but then again he and the ambassador were very different shapes.

It set off under its own power at a comfortable walking pace that Furfeg was
able to match with ease. The human guards with their shorter legs jogged to
keep up but seemed to suffer no particular distress or feel at all disgruntled
by the change in pace.

Furfeg willed himself to relax slightly. The first of many obstacles had been
navigated without incident, and the _real_ test was tomorrow. There was no
sense in running himself ragged.

Still…he couldn't shake a terrible paranoid feeling somewhere in his bones
that told him he should not _truly_ relax until after the human was safely off
his ship again.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Cabal Dataspace 32 758 927, Adjacent to Gao planetary datasphere.**

**_Cytosis_**

The sticking point was Stoneback. Every other clan, from the Females all the
way through Gaoian society had nicely followed the Hierarchy's usual
cybernetic uptake projections. Progressive generations had become more and
more comfortable with the technology, squeamishness had been carefully
reduced, until nowadays every major political force on Gao--Clan or otherwise
--had an entirely acceptable percentage of implantees.

Stoneback did not. Possibly this had to do with their lifestyles, which could
be rough and physical by any standard and even sometimes as intense as a true
Deathworlder's. Their Champion was _known_ for his lack of implants, too, and
the Clan quite naturally followed his example.

Such factions had always been…difficult…for the Hierarchy to handle. Normally
they would quietly engineer the faction's irrelevance or possibly its
destruction, but that was absolutely not an option here, for reasons that were
maddeningly complex and essential to Gaoian culture.

One of those reasons, of course, was the counter-agency of Cabal operatives.
They needed actors who were well-positioned to oppose Hierarchy influence, and
the Gao were unknowingly at an essential moment in their history; they were
_almost_ beyond the critical threshold. Stoneback was the key to their
salvation, to help them undo the deadening influence of the Hierarchy's
psychological and cultural engineering…but they had no agents within. At all.

Sometimes, however, an opportunity presented itself and in this case that
opportunity took the form of one Associate Fiin.

Fiin was a young, junior, strapping, and sullenly belligerent example of the
Clan's advanced training programs. Supremely self-confident though still in
some unidentified phase of his progression, the young associate had managed to
annoy _just_ the wrong male in a local Talamay house.

Gaoian society had a curious relationship with murder. They didn't exactly
_accept_ it--the Females wanted stability and peace after all, and for their
cubs to have long and successful lives. When a male killed another male, it
tended to harm their mating chances, and that was _usually_ enough of a
disincentive. Usually, but not invariably

Then there were the Straightshields. Gao's answer to a police force and
judiciary were, if anything, even keener on an orderly society than the
Females were, and _they_ were among the heavier implant users. After all,
neural cybernetics had made their role so much easier…

These facts combined to explain exactly why the young Fiin was standing
shackled in front of _Cytosis,_ or rather in front of the biodrone that
_Cytosis_ controlled. The young Stoneback was covered in blood and had a chunk
torn from his left ear, and he was wearing an expression of barely-contained
rage that his motives were even being questioned.

"He _attacked_ me in a back-alley with three of his workhouse-mates! What was
I supposed to do?"

"There were other options besides disemboweling all four of them, Associate
Fiin," _Cytosis_ allowed his biodrone to say. "You are _Clan_ and are held to
a much higher standard. You know this, do you not?"

Fiin aimed a look that _longed_ for violence at the Straightshield enforcers
who had him coralled. He wasn't stupid enough to fight back, but it was clear
that his hackles were up and he wanted more blood on his claws. "The Openpaw
medics said three of them will survive!"

"For which you should be immensely grateful, young Clanling. Their workhouse
will demand Wergeld and rightly so. Terl was a valuable and highly-skilled
welder."

"He should have thought of that before he tried to bite my throat out!"

"Indeed. And will the surveillance footage reflect your version of events?
Answer _wisely,_ young Clanling."

Fiin went stiff, then sagged. "Stonebacks don't lie…but it was an alleyway.
There is no footage. Which is why they attacked me there, the cowards…"

And _there_ was the opportunity that _Cytosis_ had been looking for.

"No, you don't lie, do you? I can smell it on you." Which was true: Fiin
reeked of blood and honesty. "But what am I to do, Fiin of Stoneback? This is
not your first encounter with my Clan and I suspect it will not be the last.
Have you gained no serenity from your new position?"

Fiin didn't respond to that, but he did cringe ever so slightly. _Cytosis_ had
struck a chord. He paused for a moment and addressed the enforcers. "Leave us,
I think he will hold his honor."

The enforcers regarded _Cytosis_ carefully, then backed off and resumed their
patrol. Dealing with one of the Judge-Fathers of their clan was more than they
had bargained on at the start of their day, and _especially_ not _this_
Father. _This_ father had a Reputation.

When the patrol officers had retreated sufficiently, _Cytosis_ approached
carefully and unshackled Fiin to his wide-eyed surprise.

"You are on probation," _Cytosis_ informed him. "And the citation will be
recorded. Self-defense this may have been, but there is such a thing as
excessive force, young Stoneback. You _must_ understand that, because as Clan
you have a much larger responsibility than any Clanless. And you are a
_Stoneback._ In short order you will grow past our ability to peaceably
restrain…"

He saw Fiin nod, and laid down his bait. "I am willing, however, to ensure
that the citation expires quickly, _provided_ you demonstrate that
Straightshield can trust you. Our Clans have a good relationship. I want to
keep it that way. I don't want our officers to have to bring you down hard,
and you don't want to waste a gesture of goodwill. **Do** you?"

Fiin seemed to understand the gravity of the situation and duck-nodded
submissively. "No, Father."

"Good. Now…this leniency doesn't come _entirely_ without a price. While I
cannot _order_ you to do this…Straightshield would very much appreciate if you
kept us in your thoughts when you fully assume your Clan responsibilities. You
will see much. Some of it will be unusual, perhaps unethical. Maybe dangerous
to the Gao…"

Fiin opened his mouth to object, and _Cytosis_ had his drone raise a paw to
stop him. "This is not an accusation, it is a _fact,"_ he asserted. "Every
Clan has its…difficult….elements, and Straightshield alone have the power to
independently investigate and Judge. You know our motto?"

Fiin duck-nodded. _Everybody_ knew the Straightshield motto, they were one of
the few Clans who had made theirs public knowledge. When _Cytosis_ gestured
for him to speak, he grumbled the three words quietly. _"Service Before Self"_

_Cytosis_ duck-nodded for him. "We take it seriously. Just as seriously as
_your_ Clan takes yours…"

Fiin duck-nodded seriously but did not reveal the motto. Which was…maddening.
Both the Cabal and the Hierarchy knew next to nothing about Stoneback and even
something as simple as their _motto_ eluded them. The Whitecrests had _'Light
the Darkness,'_ Clan Shortstride had _'Build The Easy Road,'_ but Stoneback
remained a frustratingly closed book.

Anyway. "Very well. Keep your nose clean and your claws bloodless, young
Stoneback. Before you know it this citation will be gone and you will have
your second chance. Now go get yourself cleaned up…and pay that wergeld. Pay
_generously,_ Fiin."

"…I will. Thank you, Father."

"Go."

He watched Fiin depart with as much dignified speed as he could, which was
frankly heavier on the speed than the dignity, then turned and strolled back
out into the crowd towards his vehicle.

It wasn't _much_ of a foothold in Gao's most impenetrable Clan… but it was a
start.

And it was more than the Hierarchy had.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Diplomatic Starship** **_Rich Plains,_** _Cimbrean System, The Far Reaches_

**_Ambassador Furfeg_**

The human was just…taking it. He had barely spoken a word for the duration of
the session so far, and had instead chosen to bow his head and listen as the
delegates took their turns laying into his species as a whole.

Furfeg was having to fight to keep his emotions from showing: Some of the
unfiltered vitriol landing on the beleaguered deathworlder went far beyond
anything that he personally or even the species in general deserved.

Furfeg had his…doubts…about mankind. When he had unleashed the Hunters on this
very ship all those years ago he had wanted to showcase the species' heroic
potential, and he had succeeded admirably at a cold cost that he had kept
buried ever since.

It was only later, on silent reflection, that he had begun to assess the
consequences. Xiu Chang herself had done nothing wrong at all--indeed, she had
been the victim of his scheme--but she had…broken things. Subtly. In ways that
were hard to pin down, the collateral damage of what she had achieved not only
on the _Rich Plains_ but also in a nameless lab on a nameless barren world, on
Gao and for the Gaoians had been widespread and most likely unconscious.

There was a lengthy causal chain between that girl's abduction and the fact
that Gao was, it was rumoured, shortly to see an upgrade in its official
Dominion habitability rating to take it above ten and into the class of
bottom-end deathworld. Furfeg was absolutely certain that the reclassification
would never have even been considered if not for that one Canadian teenager.
Perhaps the Gaoians could have maintained the deception a little while longer.

Deep in the soul he had come to believe he might have, Furfeg could only stare
at the frail, elderly ambassador that humanity had chosen for themselves and
wonder what happened when that kind of unthinking calamitous agency was
multiplied to include _eight billion_ people? Just how hot _was_ the fire they
were playing with, here?

And why was something so dangerous willing to just sit and take it?

The answer came to him in a cold jolt. Hussein was accepting the abuse with
such composure _because he could._

The realization happened at about the same time as the last of the grieving
Guvnurag delegates reached the end of their tirade and sank back into their
seat exhausted. Twelve of the most powerful politicians in the galaxy had
shouted themselves hoarse at an old man.

Slowly, with a hand that might have been trembling from emotion or might have
been trembling from age, Hussein reached up and removed his glasses. He folded
them carefully and held them lightly in his lap as he tugged a small cloth
square from his pocket and delicately dried around his eyes and nose.

He returned the cloth to his pocket, re-positioned the spectacles on his nose,
cleared his throat, and then looked around at the beings who had abused him so
futilely.

"…What must we do?" he asked, quietly.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Xiu Chang_**

"You can't just _'go native'_ like that!"

"I had a stone in my shoe! What was I gonna do, let it wreck the whole foot?
The damn thing doesn't heal, Al!"

Xiu had never heard Allison and Julian really raise their voices at each other
before. As with all relationships there was always the occasional irate
moment, the odd tense exchange, but by and large they had a peaceful home.

But Allison was _furious_ with Julian today, and Xiu couldn't really blame
her.

The girls had gone on a supply run back to the ship, and on returning they'd
found Julian showing a fascinated Vemik the workings of his foot while gnawing
happily on a roasted Werne shank. And he'd _known_ he shouldn't be doing
either of those things, because he'd shot Allison the immediate guilty look
that all men wore when caught by their girlfriends doing something that had
been explicitly forbidden.

Vemik, wisely, had found a reason to leave. Quickly.

"Xiu! Back me up here?" Allison finally turned to her and flung an arm wide,
inviting her to pitch in.

Xiu looked her in the eye and shook her head. "No ganging up, remember?" she
said, quietly.

The gentle reminder worked. Allison gawped at her for a second, then blinked
and chilled out a little.

"I…Uh…Right. Shit, Julian, I'm sorry. I'm just--"

"No, it's--" Julian tried to interrupt her. "You're right, I promised I
wouldn't."

"It's not that. You've been _scaring the shit outta me,_ dummy." Allison
confessed. "I keep waiting for you to wake up puking blood or…something."

"Allison…" Julian hugged her and ran a vigorous, reassuring hand firmly up and
down her back. "We've got biofilters, antibiotics, antiparasitics and stasis.
We _need_ to befriend these people if we're not gonna be Gods and break them
completely. We're tough and they're smart. We…we need to take some risk here.
If we don't, we might be risking _them._ They need to see us as _people_ and
not avatars or we might get…hell, a cargo cult or something."

"There's gotta be a way to do that without risking your _own_ health, though?"

"…I'm not stupid," Julian chided without any real hard feeling. "Vemet wanted
me to take their trial of manhood, and _God_ knows what that involves, but I
know there's some kind of a drug in there so I said no. I said it would
probably be bad because I'm from very far away and it might insult his gods,
and he seemed okay with that."

Allison backed down some more. "Good. That's…good. Thanks."

"I'm not happy about it either," Xiu confessed, "I dunno, I think he's right,
_bǎobei._ But…I think you're right too. I'm torn."

**"I'm** not happy about it!" Julian said. "Just by being here we've done…fuck-knows-what to these people. I just don't think hiding anything is gonna prevent further harm."

Allison made a pained noise and threw herself into Xiu's lap under the tree
they were using as _'their'_ space in the clearing. She kneaded her eyes with
the heel of her hands before running her fingers through her hair and sighed
at the leaves and limbs above. "…I mean…do we _really_ wanna let more cats out
of the bag?"

"No, I don't _want_ to," Julian repeated himself. "I think we _have_ to. We
need to be _real_ in a way they can understand. I don't wanna be a God."

"Oh, come _on!"_ Allison groaned and glared at him half-heartedly. "Now you're
gonna use my own thing against me?"

"If it's your own thing, babe…" He pointed out, and let the thought hang
unfinished.

Allison stared at him a few moments longer then looked to Xiu, who shrugged
and gave her a reassuring kiss on the forehead. "We're all stressing out about
this," she said, stroking Allison's hair. "I don't want to hurt them either,
but…"

"But honesty is the best policy. Fuck." Allison sighed. "Fine. Beat by my own
logic, huh?"

"Sorry." Julian sat down with them both, and the argument ended as all their
arguments did with foreheads to foreheads and three quick kisses. No hard
feelings.

There was a curious sound from nearby. The Singer was watching them again, in
a very different way to Vemik. Where Vemik had a permanent puppyish tilt to
his head as he tried to figure out what he was hearing, the Singer
just…watched. Levelly, thoughtfully and impenetrably.

Of course, this was the first time the three of them had been affectionate in
front of the tribe, wasn't it? In the moment, they'd forgotten.

Xiu went tense, waiting for the Singer to demand an explanation…but instead
the native woman shrugged, turned, and swung away into a neighboring tree
without comment.

They watched her go.

"…What's with her?" Allison asked, eventually.

"I've barely spoken with her," Xiu said. "She…I don't think she knows what to
think of us yet."

"Could be a problem," Julian's hand rasped through a few days of stubble. "If
she decides she doesn't like us…"

"Her word would carry a lot of weight," Xiu agreed. "I think she's Yan's
niece, as well as being the witch or…whatever we call her."

"Let's just call her the Singer," Allison proposed.

"And what do we do if she _doesn't_ like us?" Julian asked.

Xiu watched Vemik get up and leave as well, following after the Singer.

"…we'll cross that bridge when we come to it," she decided.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Vemik Sky-Thinker_**

Vemik had _good_ hearing. He listened thoughtfully from a distance, and he
wondered. He didn't quite understand what they were talking about. Their sky-
words were still new but…

They seemed worried. Worried about the People. And they seemed…like they
_cared._ And that, he decided, was a good thing.

He noticed the Singer giving the three Sky-People some distance and followed
her to the temporary nest she'd made half-way up a Ketta tree, hung with bones
and totems and a few of her herbs and roots. She was dividing her time between
the village and the meeting-place for now, and was almost as exhausted as
she'd been on the long journey from the old village.

She gave him a tired look as she settled into the little bowl of bent branches
and leaves she'd made for herself.

"You're quiet…" Vemik said.

"I left the baby with Semi," she said. Semi had been the mother of Vemik's
half-sisters, and was throwing herself hard into her work to try and keep her
thoughts away from the pain of knowing that her daughters, sent to the eastern
tribe a few seasons before, had all been killed by the "Big Enemy".

Having a niece to look after was probably doing her some good. It was
certainly helping the Singer, who had been struggling to cope with the
constant demands of both tribe and child even _before_ the sky-people showed
up.

Vemik prided himself that he could offer comfort and support--the Singer fell
asleep the instant he held her, most nights--but she had been adamant that if
he wanted sex then he was going to have to go find some _other_ woman for that
as she just didn't have the energy.

Vemik would have taken her at her word too, except that all the women in the
tribe were so much older than him. Old enough to be his mother, although _she_
had died and her body had been given to the skies many seasons ago. So long
ago that Vemik could remember little of her.

He'd grown up being mothered by the whole tribe. To go to any of them
seemed…it made his skin feel like little things were crawling all over him,
and the crawling feeling got even worse when he thought about how the only
other women in the tribe were his cousins and sisters.

There had been too many seasons since they last traded with another tribe. Too
many more and things would become difficult indeed.

The Singer always seemed to know the inside of his head. Her usual amused
sparkle shone through the fatigue for a second as she gave him a sly look.
"So, what do _you_ find so fascinating in the Sky-People?" she asked. "They
are beautiful in a strange way, aren't they?"

"They don't have tails," Vemik objected. "And their hands have too many
fingers, and that _thing_ in the middle of their faces--!"

"And they're beautiful. In a strange way," she repeated. "Aren't they?"

"…Yes." Vemik admitted. "But stranger than I…they seem…" He paused and scowled
at himself. Whatever thought he was trying to have was getting stuck like a
bone in a choking man's throat. "Do women…?"

"Do women what?" Her tone was light and innocent, but her eyes were anything
but.

"The Sky-Women, they seem to…love each other. And him."

"And why not?" the Singer smiled at him. "Some of the village women turn to
each other for comfort when the men are away hunting."

"You do?"

"And why not?" She repeated. "Why? Don't men--?"

"If we do, none of them have ever asked _me_ to-" Vemik shook his head. "No."

The Singer picked a stray shred of leaf out of her tail-crest. "Perhaps I
should ask a different man."

Feeling strangely jilted for no good reason that he could identify, Vemik
climbed up onto a branch slightly higher than hers and lay along it on his
belly, looking down at her. She rolled onto her back and continued to give him
that impenetrable, amused look. "Do you think they'd answer?"

"Why not? Your father and Yan seem to like each other."

"Wait, really?" Vemik was still thinking through what that might mean when she
trilled loudly and gave him a fond look.

"I'm tugging your tail, stupid."

"…Oh." Vemik lowered his head again, thinking.

"I mean, Yan likes most people…but he's polite about it," she added. "Maybe he
likes you!"

Vemik made a pained noise, as he always did when people were teasing him with
things he didn't know and vague half-answers. "You are in an _evil_ mood
today!"

"No, I'm in a good mood." The Singer stretched and curled up a little in her
nest. "That argument of theirs…what did you make of it?"

"…That they're worried about something. Something big. And they're worried for
_us."_

"Yes," she agreed. "Comforting, isn't it?"

"If the _Sky-People_ are worried for us…they can do impossible things.
Shouldn't we be worried by there being something that worries them?"

"Why? We can only do what we can do. Yan has more taking-magic than the men in
any of the songs, but I think he'd be killed dead by that black rock-spear
thing they have."

"That's worrying!" Vemik insisted.

"It is! But it's obvious that they care about us, so it's not something to
worry _about._ See?"

Vemik looked down at her, knowing that he was going to worry about it despite
her advice. "…So what do we do?"

"Learn. They worry for us. That's both worrying _and_ comforting, so learn. In
time they will tell us what worries them, and once we know? _Then_ we can make
plans."

"When we get the words…and the sky-thoughts. It's hard, it's like…" Vemik
searched for the phrasing. "They have words for thoughts nobody's ever had!
Every time we talk I feel--" he paused and summoned the word he had learned.
"They have a word. _'Universe.'_ It means all the stars in the night sky that
we can see, _and all the ones that we can't see too."_

"I heard it. It sounded like Big Magic."

"But…what kind of people have a word for stars that we can't see?"

She shrugged. "Sky-thinkers."

_"I'm_ a sky-thinker," he objected, "and _I_ never came up with a word like
that."

"You haven't been doing it for as long."

Vemik opened his mouth to protest, and the Singer raised her hand to forestall
the argument. "No, really! They're not gods, I think that's true, right? Gods
don't eat like we do, or have strange carved feet, or anything like that.
They're just People from under a far-away sky who have been sky-thinking for a
very long time and are very good at it. They've _told_ us so."

"They could be lying?" Vemik suggested, half-heartedly. It was a crippled and
weak little objection.

"Jooyun didn't lie about his made-foot, did he? He took it apart and showed
you all the bones and tendons, even with how _strange_ their feet are. Why
would he lie about any of that? Why would a _god_ lie and pretend to just be a
Person?" She glanced at the sun. _"Could_ a god lie and pretend to just be a
Person?"

"Maybe he's a trickster god?"

"Well…No, I don't think so. I feel it in my breath." Which was fair enough, as
far as Vemik was concerned. It was the Singer's _job_ to know such things,
after all. "But, you want to do something? Jooyun seems to like you. You two
started exploring right? Why not keep doing that? I _know_ you're harassing
him with questions and he hasn't taken you with his black-spear, so…"

"He seems to like it when I ask questions…" Vemik admitted.

"Maybe he likes _you…"_ She had that teasing edge to her voice again.

"Hey!"

The Singer trilled, "You're such easy prey!"

"Apparently," grumbled Vemik. She trilled again, but relented.

"Fine. He likes your questions. So if he **is** a god then asking questions
will keep him happy, and if he _isn't_ a god then maybe he will teach you
things," she summed up with a nod. "And maybe, eventually, you will know what
has them so worried."

"And after that…I keep asking questions until I know how to help them with
whatever has them worried?" Vemik asked.

"Maybe. Swing from this tree to that tree, Sky-thinker. Don't try to hold a
branch that isn't in front of you."

"You sound like Yan," Vemik grumbled. She trilled.

"I hope so! He _is_ my uncle. And a wise man, too--You should listen to him
more."

"I do listen to him!"

"Really?" the Singer shook her head and seemed amused. "And if Yan was giving
you advice right now, what would he say?"

Vemik thought about it. "He'd say…to keep my thoughts here and now. Hold the
branch in front of me."

"And what _is_ in front of you right now?"

Vemik grinned. "A nest that's just about big enough for two, if they're close
enough…"

"Really? Well then, father of my first child. How close _are_ we?"

It was Vemik's turn to make an amused trill, and he dropped easily off his
branch and onto hers.

"Why don't we learn?" he asked.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Diplomatic Starship** **_Rich Plains,_** **Orbiting Cimbrean-5, The Far Reaches**

**++????++:** _&lt;Alarm;Priority&gt;_ [broadcast;observer_10 142 059; Meme_Sequence17 974 645]

Every Igraen agent in the Hierarchy had spent time as an Observer before being
selected to undergo their evaluation period as a Zero ahead of _finally_ being
inducted into the Hierarchy itself. The work was tedious and demeaning, but it
supposedly instilled patience and winnowed out those too fickle to properly
serve the needs of the species.

The Observers did just and only that: they observed. They did not have the
override codes to assume control of their host, nor any authority within the
Hierarchy structure but they were utterly essential. The Hierarchy, after all,
numbered _at most_ in the low thousands and had done so only a few times in
their history.

This, compared to _millions_ of potentially important individuals who might
know and see things that the Hierarchy might wish to learn. Individuals such
as the Guvnurag diplomat Furfegrovan.

The observer riding in Furfeg's implants had been monitoring the Guvnurag's
thoughts and had noted a chain of reasoning that it felt warranted inspection
by a more senior agent. It had kicked the meme-sequence upstairs to its over-
observer, which had in turn forward it to the observation overseer.

The thought chain was easily summarized: _'The human is up to something.'_
This alone warranted analysis, especially in light of the sophisticated
decision tree that underpinned the opinion, and so the overseer immediately
brought the analyzers into play.

Analyzers were the second tier of the structure atop which rested the
Hierarchy's agents. Observe, Analyze, Act. All Agents spent time as an
Analyzer as well before they finally made it to their Zero-trial.

Analysis of the meme-sequence led to its immediate graduation to needing Agent
intervention. It was forwarded to the junior receiving agent monitoring the
diplomatic operation, who instantly handed it to the senior agent.

The entire process took place during the ringing silence that followed
Ambassador Hussein's simple question.

"What must we do?" he repeated himself, leaning forward on his cane and
peering over his glasses. "Tell us. My species is listening, gentlebeings.
Reveal to us what it is we must do to earn your trust, and it will be done."

Hierarchy prediction algorithms ran ahead of that question, sending questing
tendrils of probability-math into the future in search of the plausible
outcomes, the desirable outcomes, the disastrous outcomes. Nodes of
possibility were found, key branches in the conversation to come were mapped.

Hussein did not stand--indeed, the act seemed beyond him at this point--but he
did shuffle forward and perch owl-like on the edge of his seat. "Tell us," he
repeated, softly.

With a fully mapped probability matrix in place, the Hierarchy's critical
objectives were injected and work began on what sequence of words and actions
might bring them about. First and foremost, the objective of driving a
permanent wedge between ordinary sapients and all forms of deathworld life.

One of the Guvnurag erupted to his feet, flaring a furious red. "There is
_nothing!"_ he spat. "The homeworld would be untouched if not for your kind,
and you **dare** ask us to trust you? You… you _blunder_ off your diseased
planet and rot everything you touch, and then you ask for forgiveness? There
is **nothing,** Ambassador! Nothing that you can do! Do not even ask!"

The probability space shrank and stretched, dozens of Hierarchy programs
watched every subtle facet of Hussein's body language as he took the tirade
with patient sadness.

"…Then why am I here?" he asked, eventually. "Is this sentiment universal?
Diplomacy never fails, sir; People fail it. It falls to us at these moments to
have the strength to-"

"Your _'strength,'_" one of the other dignitaries interrupted, spurred by the
Agent in her brain, "crushes us all."

"Strength can do that," Hussein agreed. "Or it can hold off the crushing blow.
Strength is never a problem, gentlebeings. Strength _solves_ problems, and it
now falls to us to be strong for both our species' sakes."

"And what problems _have_ you solved, Ambassador Hussein?" Furfeg asked,
quietly. He was unaware of his status as the only Guvnurag in the room whose
actions were entirely uninfluenced by Hierarchy demons. There always needed to
be at least one, to act as a barometer for how other uncontrolled life forms
would behave.

Hussein considered that for a long moment. "That is a fascinating question,
Your Excellency. Answering it in detail would require I place all of you in
great danger, and that, obviously, cannot stand. So I will answer it as best I
can: we have ensured the continued survival of ourselves and others."

"A bluff," One of the dignitaries scoffed.

"If so, it is one we have committed virtually all of our Dominion Development
Credits to ensure, along with a crippling increase in GRA member-nation debt,
extensive economic pressure not to mention internal instability. No. This is a
threat we are _committed_ to fighting, and we are doomed to fight it mostly in
silence. But, alas, I cannot ask your sympathy, and I know beyond doubt that
many of the people in this room know of what I am speaking."

"And is this… problem… actually _solved,_ Your Excellency?" Furfeg pressed.

"No. Nor will it be anytime soon. All of that, however, is merely background.
My people are in a fight for the right to _exist,_ and one aspect of our enemy
has decided to make an example of your people for their own reasons. This…we
are not _strong_ enough to have stopped it. We could only watch, helplessly,
as all our oft-mentioned Deathworld might was as _nothing_ before a million
evil ships. So, I ask again: what must we do?"

Furfeg's chromatophores shone with a mix of uncertainty and, even now, the
urge to reconcile… and it was on that lone data point that the probability-
space collapsed into a narrow channel of forced action.

There were no malicious words or taunting. What would have been the point?
Instead, one of the Agents merely triggered a contingency in physical space
that had been prepared ahead of this meeting. Its host raised a hand and
pointed at the human, and there was a snapping hiss of compressed air.

Hussein had enough time to look down at the nervejam grenade that landed at
his feet.

His reply was soft. "…I see."

He shut his eyes.

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Technical Sergeant Martina Kovač_**

As dates went, Martina had to feel that going to a photo exhibition being
thrown by her boyfriend's ex-girlfriend-slash-adopted-sister was… Surprisingly
good actually. It sounded a lot worse on paper than it was in reality.

Ava was looking _good_ these days. Marty doubted she'd ever quite lose that
haunted look but she was carrying herself more openly, smiling more, looking
less sorry for herself. Her fingertips never strayed far from the soft-haired
brown border collie at her side, but there was a determined positive energy
around her now. It was a definite improvement.

According to Adam, Ava had approached Folctha's art galleries about doing an
exhibition as a kind of therapy. Marty had no idea what went into being
accepted by an art gallery, but she'd done her research and learned that the
Ealain Gallery was getting the best reviews by all the right people. Some very
serious names, apparently, felt that the place was on its way to becoming a
true cultural focus. One critic had called it 'Folctha's answer to the Tate
Modern,' and it was high on the list of tourist destinations for visitors to
mankind's first offworld colony.

Art galleries had never been Marty's thing, though. Too… self-congratulatory.
She was an engineer and a scientist at heart, she loved problems and solving
problems. The eternal quest to find ever-more subtle ways of evoking an
emotion usually left her cold.

Sometimes, though, something came along to make her grudgingly reassess her
opinion and Ava's photography was proving to be such a sometime. Apparently
she'd worked closely with the gallery's curator to tell a story, and they'd
succeeded.

The path through the exhibit meandered confusingly, leaving no clear sense of
direction. It started, surprisingly, with an image _not_ taken by Ava--a photo
taken out in nature by a lake, showing the sunlight making lines of light and
dark on Ava's own naked back while the sun itself was framed by a coil of her
soaked hair. You had to know it was Ava, though, as she was looking away from
the camera. Frankly, the girl in the picture could have been anyone.

It was a happy image, a warm one, and it held Adam enthralled for so long that
Marty was about to tease him about the shadowed edge of a teenage breast just
visible between Ava's arm and her knee when he spoke.

"I remember that day…"

Marty checked the label. "Original image by S. Tisdale…"

"Yeah. Last day we ever swam at the lake. God, she died only a week later…"

Marty took his hand and led him away from it, into the thicket of images that
Ava had taken herself. There was a very similar image to the first one at the
far end of the gallery, enlarged so that everyone could see that it was there
and that it was _almost_ identical to the first one, but hidden behind a
curtain of gauze that blurred the details. The winding trail around the
exhibit swung close to it, but never behind the curtain. Whatever that image
depicted was tantalizingly visible, but never accessible.

"Jack writes to you, right?" she asked.

"Recruit Tisdale, you mean?" Adam grinned. "Yeah, he writes to me every week.
Says the PT at HMS _Raleigh_ is way easier than what I was givin' him… hey,
this is London, right?"

"You tell me, I've never been," Marty inspected the image he'd stooped to
study. It certainly had a strong London-ness to it. In fact, as she looked
around she found they were in the middle of a virtual island of London-ness,
written in shades of orange, blue and gray-scale. "Gonna be a while before
he's on the team."

"Five years to finish his Engineering Technician training after he's done with
Basic. God, I'll be an old man by then!"

"Shut up, you won't even be thirty."

"You'll be though!" Adam shot her his best shit-eating grin, bouncing on the
balls of his feet with enough force to be felt through the concrete tiled
floor. "Ooolld….."

Marty slapped his arm and got stinging fingers for it, but she was giggling.
"Asshole… Come on, let's see what's next."

Ava's exhibition really was an emotional journey, and all of it was told in
portraits of light and color that tended to focus on one ordinary thing. A
decrepit old Lada in Cairo, a forlorn brown rock in the middle of the
surprising subtle hues of desert sand. A crown of brambles choking a native
Cimbrean tree to death. Every single one was bleak, but… there was something…

It finally clicked for Marty when they reached the far end of the gallery
closest to the gauze and she could see what the picture behind was: A
recreation of the original image by the lakeshore, with an older Ava still
anonymously looking away from the camera.

She leaned back, folded her arms thoughtfully. "Well now. I don't usually go
for art, but this? I like."

"That means a lot. Thank you!"

They both turned. Ava had managed to sneak up on them during their slow tour
around the exhibit, and gave them a shy smile. "It was Bernadette who really
put it together, though. I didn't even _see_ the theme in all these until she
brought it out."

"Bernadette?" Adam asked.

"The curator." Ava looked around the exhibit. "She must've gone through
thousands of pictures to narrow it down to just these."

"I like that you used Sara's picture," Adam told her.

"Mm. It was Berna's idea to recreate it." Ava looked up at the huge image of
herself on the wall. "Is it weird that an exhibition of my photos is framed by
two pictures I didn't take?"

"You're asking the wrong gal," Marty confessed. "You modeled nude, though? I
dunno if I could do that…"

"Actually, it was a real boost." Ava smiled. "I might do it some more. Not,
like, a glamour shoot but for art reasons? Hell yeah, sign me- sorry."

The apology was in response to her phone humming inside her purse. She fished
it out with a practised ease that said that she got a _lot_ of phone calls at
unexpected moments, and had it against her ear in a businesslike flash.

"Ava Rios…_Me cago en Cristo,_ are you _sure?!_ …Yeah! Yeah, send it over,
I'll meet the crew at Quarterside Park. Right away, Thor. …You too."

She lowered the phone with a stunned expression.

"Something happen?" Adam asked.

Ava nodded slowly. "…Ambassador Hussein has been murdered."

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Nofl_**

"The way I see it, you have a choice here. You can be a criminal and a dropout
from the Corti Directorate and sink into obscurity…or you could become
respected and revered."

Nofl wasn't buying it, and said so. "Chief, chief, _sweetie!_ I thought you
were a man of _principle?"_ He wasn't handcuffed--humans didn't make cuffs
small enough for a Corti's wrists--so he idly traced a lazy finger in an
abstract pattern on the steel tabletop they had parked him at, seated atop a
couple of thick books. "This political bargaining doesn't suit you, not at
all!"

"I _am_ a man of principle." Gabriel Ares was in that ridiculous primitive
wheeled chair of his again. _Why_ the man persisted in enduring the indignity
of a permanently damaged nerve despite Nofl's repeated offers to help…well,
everybody said humans were strange. "Our system of justice seeks _fairness_
and even if you broke the law, your _intent_ matters. It always does."

"I'm sure that line works with the Gaoians, but I am one of the finest Corti
minds alive, darling. Try harder."

"You got caught."

"…True."

Ares smiled and shook his head. "No, this is a grand old tradition we have.
It's called a _plea bargain,_ Nofl, and it's quite simple. You co-operate and
confess to the crime, admit guilt, and you will be treated _very_ fairly. As
opposed to merely…well. The local Prosecutor is frankly sick and _tired_ of
all the smuggling attempts we've foiled, and I think she wants a scalp, if you
catch my meaning."

Nofl considered that entirely plain and unhidden threat. "And what does this
attorney of mine that you said would be arranged for me have to say about all
this?"

"I don't know. Would you like to ask her?" Gabriel paused, looked around
conspiratorially, and said in a low voice. "Look…you're not human, so let me
just say the correct answer is 'yes.' You want to talk to her. Now."

Nofl considered the chief for several seconds, and then nodded. "Yes please. I
would like to speak with my attorney."

Gabriel nodded, wheeled himself out of the room, and after a tellingly short
wait, a tall and robust human female with very long, black hair strode in. She
waited until the other humans had left, and then opened her briefcase.

"Mr. Nofl, I am Ms. Bader. As you are alien, let me first say that anything
you and I discuss--anything _at all_--is protected and inadmissible in court.
There are only three classes of profession where that protection is extended,
and in our case, that protection is absolute. Do you understand?"

"What if they… record what we discuss?" Nofl asked, curiously. Even from that
first businesslike sentence, the whole affair was beginning to seem rather
elaborate.

"The legal concept translates from the Latin as something like 'tainted fruit
of the poisoned tree.' Anything they learn from such a thing, and all of the
descendant products thereof, are not only inadmissible in court but they will
_themselves_ have committed a crime. The act of recording this conversation is
_also_ illegal. And…as an aside? I would love for them to try. I'd make _all_
of the money."

Nofl found himself warming to this human. Her attitude was almost Corti, and
for an added bonus her suit was _immaculately_ tailored. Corti didn't wear
clothes, but that was no excuse for being fashion-blind. "Very well. Then yes,
I indeed smuggled Cruezzir through customs as a personal favor to Myun. She
does not know the details. She only wanted me to 'get some' to help Chief
Ares."

"How admirable," Bader said, unconvincingly. "That particular crime carries
the maximum penalty of 'Transportation' on Cimbrean, which is just a gussied-
up English way of saying 'exile to wherever.' Which brings us to my question:
how would you like to plea?"

Nofl considered it. "Chief Ares was telling me about this bargain he wanted to
offer."

Bader rolled her eyes. "He can't do that. Only the Prosecutor can, but I have
no doubt that rolling tightass coordinated everything with that…with her. But
I bet the offer is genuine. He _is_ honest to a fault." Her tone of voice
was…_difficult_ for Nofl to analyze. Admiring? Something about the tone didn't
quite match the words.

"So what are my options, dear?"

Bader snorted derisively through her nose. "Drop the act, Nofl. I don't think
there's such a thing as a gay Corti."

"You're quite right, dear, but can't a chap be camp for fun?"

She deployed Nofl's very favorite human gesture--the _'concession nod.'_ Head
slightly tilted, mouth in a straight line, eyebrows raised. "A fair point, I
guess. But as to your options, you have three: you could plead guilty and
throw yourself at the mercy of the court--Don't. You could plead not guilty,
and--" she quickly rifled through her case notes, "--likely be found guilty as
charged, and then the Prosecutor would have _lots_ of fun. Sorry. They've got
fingerprints, video evidence, transport logs…all of it. Yikes."

Nofl considered this, feeling slightly chagrined. "And the third option?"

"Well…we strike a deal." She rested her hand under her chin. "Which says
something that they're willing to offer a deal, seeing as they have you dead
to rights. You're very valuable to someone, Nofl. What did you _do?_ And
better yet, how can I profit for both of us?"

"Oh, I was just the first-circle professor of regenerative medicine at the
Grand University of Origin…" Nofl permitted himself his best impersonation of
a winning smile. "You should see my personal banner, it's taller than I am."

"…Are you the reason that 'Warhorse' character needs a whole sidewalk to
himself? Him and his friends?"

"Miss Bader, if I answered that question then…oh wait, everything I say to you
is inadmissible, isn't it?"

"…yes…" Bader conceded, "But I _highly_ encourage you to exercise discretion.
The subtleties of the law here are significant and you'll no doubt wish to
study them after we've got your little problem cleared up. In _particular_ the
Cimbreaners have an Official Secrets Act which is just…unAmerican, if you ask
me."

"As I understand it, the colony is not American."

"Their loss," Bader sniffed. "But while the protection _is_ absolute, that
doesn't mean they won't try. We have another concept: 'the process is the
punishment.' Let's not explore that, hmm?"

"You manage to make law sound almost interesting, Miss Bader. Poisoned fruits
and florid language… It's nearly exciting!"

"Here's another word you might like. 'Lawfare.' I'll let you ponder that one.
Now…shall I begin talks with the Prosecutor, and get you out of this cell? I'm
gonna shoot for an admission of guilt, probation of, oh, some term or
another…let's stick to a misdemeanor, yeah. Maybe a fine? Only if I must. Oh,
and are you willing to do community service? That might let me sweeten the
offer."

"I _suspect,"_ Nofl hazarded, "That community service is exactly what Chief
Ares wants."

"Oh no, what he wants is _justice._ He's admirable that way…" she got that
strange look in her eye again, "Anyway. He'll be happy if the _system_ works
like it should. It's really the Prosecutor we need to worry and she is a
_bitch_ lately about…God, everything. Incidentally, I've made a small fortune
off the Clan males and their constant brawling…"

Nofl gave her a calculating look. "How much are your services going to cost
me?"

"This one? It's free. Public defender working _pro bono_ and all that. _After_
today…" she flashed that distinctive _predator_ smile that only humans ever
quite got right. "I'm sure we can work something out."

"I'm sure we can," Nofl agreed.

After that, things went _remarkably_ fast. Less than twenty temporal units
after she closed her folder and let herself out, Ms. Bader returned. Five
minutes after _that_ there was a bustle towards the courthouse, where the
Judge, Ms. Bader, and the Prosecutor donned some _ridiculous_ white wigs.
There was some highly encoded legal jargon spoken in heated terms…and the
agreement was set.

The deal as it was explained to Nofl was really quite straightforward: He
would serve one Cimbrean year of 'probation' which as he understood it meant a
solemn promise not to offend again, on pain of _severe_ punishment. He would
perform two hundred hours of 'community service' and he would pay a bond of
one thousand Cimbrean Pounds, repayable with interest after his year of
probation was served, and he would offer one thousand hours of professional
services towards the local military establishment.

The only hiccup in the process came when they tried to explain the concept of
_'swearing an oath.'_ The whole notion veered deep into the heartlands of
deathworld strangeness, onto a region of Nofl's mental map that was clearly
labelled "Madness."

In the end, mostly in the hopes that by doing so he might get them to stop
explaining it, he agreed to swear on a printout of the universal physical
constants. What could be more fundamental? He spoke a few simple words
solemnly avowing his obedience and agreement, the Prosecutor reluctantly
agreed to the contract…and he was let free. Somehow, he really hadn't expected
to end the day as the next best thing to a free Corti.

And waiting outside was Gabriel Ares in his chair with a 'shit-eating grin' on
his face.

"I told you to plea-bargain, didn't I?" he asked. It wasn't really a question.

"Yes, but _why_ darling?"

"Oh, that's easy. You did wrong but you also did good. We needed to resolve
that. And besides…" Ares' smile changed from _'shit-eating'_ to _'sheepish.'_
"…Who else am I gonna get a nerve treatment from around here?"

Nofl brightened up, _genuinely._ "…Really? Are you finally ready to leave that
_dreadful_ chair of yours behind?"

"Well…I have a sneaking suspicion that I might be a grandfather sooner than
later. I…what man wouldn't want to play with his own grandkids?"

_"Much_ too sentimental, darling," Nofl flapped a hand at him. "But… fine.
Your reasons are yours, I'm sure."

Ares chuckled. "Guilty as charged I think…" he paused, turned and frowned as a
CCS officer in the characteristic high-vis yellow jacket and officer cap
jogged up to him. "…Henson? Something wrong?"

"Message from the Governor-General, chief," Henson said. "He's called an
emergency session."

"He has? Why?"

"They're saying Ambassador Hussein is dead, chief…"

**Date Point: 12y6m AV**  
**Folctha, Cimbrean, The Far Reaches**

**_Technical Sergeant Martina Kovač_**

The tree was a Terran import, a dioecious "female" Ginkgo Biloba selected
specifically for the fact that it wouldn't release potentially allergenic
pollens that could endanger Folctha's nonhuman residents. It had been imported
as a young adult and was already as thick around as Marty's torso, a promise
of incredible girth to come when it was fully matured.

Adam's fist left a dent in the coarse bark, drawing blood and surprised gasps
from bystanders. Ava's exhibition had practically emptied as she had rushed
out of the gallery and across the street to do an emergency piece to camera
for ESNN on the ambassador's assassination, but even that fascinating
diversion was secondary to Adam punching a tree with enough force to break the
turf behind him as its roots flexed.

He looked up, grumbled an apology, and skulked around the tree to nurse his
bloody hand. Considering how much narrower than him its trunk was it didn't
offer anything much in the way of privacy, but at least it was a barrier of
sorts.

Marty stopped watching Ava doing her work--and it was _good_ work, she had to
admit--and joined him. He was picking splinters out of his flesh.

"…He refused security," she reminded him gently, after a tactful interval.

"I could have _saved_ him!" Adam snapped. "Hell, I've done that same thing
before! If I'd just _been_ there-!!"

"He _refused!"_ Marty repeated herself. "Dude, you can't protect people who
don't want protecting."

"It's just so fucking… _why?"_

"Maybe he went up there expecting this to happen," Marty pointed out. "…Hell,
Hussein was ninety. When my great-grampa hit ninety, he started getting real
upset that everyone was looking after him. I reckon he'd have _killed_ to be
able to do something useful with his death. The Mission, you know?"

Adam unwound a bit. "Yeah… but Hussein was a civilian, and your great-grampa
hit the beaches at Normandy, right?."

"Right. Military family. Double-Grampy served, Grampy served, Dad served, I'm
serving… But not everyone who serves is military, 'Horse."

"Maybe, but the whole point is-"

"I _know_ what the whole point is," Marty assured him. "It's to protect
people's right to live their lives their way."

Adam nodded glumly, and licked his knuckle by way of fixing it. Bloody
knuckles were a constant among HEAT men, they were generally ignored until the
next routine Crue-D dose came along and repaired them.

"Still don't feel right though, huh?" Marty put her arm as far around his
waist as she could.

"Nuh." Adam shook his head, and buried her under his own return hug. "Shit,
what's gonna happen next? Are we just gonna let this slide? Are the Guvnurag?"

"What're they gonna do, glow at us?" Marty asked. "We have bigger fish to
fry."

"I dunno, Marty. They're still a _long_ way ahead of us tech-wise. If they
really put their heads to it…" Adam glanced around and lowered his voice. "It
ain't them I'm worried about exactly. What happens if they figure out a
weakness in our shit and you-know-who picks up on it?"

"Come on, do I gotta tell _you_ that we just do the job in front of us?" Marty
asked. "Those kinds of questions are for the brass, poor assholes."

"Ours not to reason why. Right." Adam nodded and finally managed to purge his
frustrations with a sigh. A thought seemed to strike him. "…Is that Kipling
too?"

"Tennyson." Marty looked around the tree. Or rather around Adam, the tree
being kind of an afterthought once he was out of the way. "I think Ava's
winding up her report. Wanna invite her to go grab a burger?"

"Sounds good… " Adam, spurred by the promise of food, sprang upright. "Since
when do you get on well with Ava?"

"Since she's your _sister?"_

"Dude, she's not _exactly_ my sister…"

"I know, but she's your family and… I dunno." Marty shrugged. "Firth can
grumble all he likes, I think there's somebody worthwhile there. And you do
too, or you wouldn'ta mended that bridge."

"Ain't bridges that worry me. I mean, she's never bugged me for an exclusive
or whatever, but this is a big story. And we ain't authorised to go talkin' to
the press…"

"What, don't you trust her?"

"Not really." Adam paused. "Well… Yeah I do, Maybe? Depends on what. I trust
her to keep a secret, at least. She respects non-disclosure."

"So just tell her we can't talk about it. Hell, I'll bet my burnt ass she'll
nod and say okay and that's an end to it."

Adam grimaced. "Major Powell doesn't trust her."

"Major Powell can't stop you from going for a burger with your girlfriend and
your sister," Marty pointed out. Adam was always painfully worried about what
the old man would think. Marty, meanwhile, was much more experienced at
knowing where the boundaries _really_ lay. "Worst he'll do is say _'fook'_ at
us a lot. Besides, isn't public affairs one of your extra duties?"

"Under close supervision and with a very specific brief, yeah, but-"

"'Horse, we aren't _doing_ a public affairs thing. We're grabbing a burger
with your sister."

"With my _journalist ex-girlfriend._ That ain't the same thing."

"You have breakfast with her at your dad's place every week," Marty said.
"And… I love you, and your dad's awesome? But you _really_ learned how to cram
the rulebook up your ass from him. It's _fine!_ The worst case scenario here
is the old man clears his throat and Rebar has to find a way of 'motivating'
the both of us that isn't disproportionate." Marty shrugged. "And if I get one
of those 'red, white and blue' burgers from Best Brioche out of it? Worth it."

Adam's stomach growled audibly. The Red White and Blue burger was a Cimbrean
celebrity built from half a pound of medium-rare steak mince with back bacon
for the red, ranch dressing for the white and blue stilton, _all_ of it local
produce right down to the bun. "…You're a fucking seductress."

"Hey, he finally noticed!" Marty grinned at him. "Now, are you coming or not?"

Adam glanced back in the direction of the base for a heartfelt few seconds
then caved. "This is gonna throw my macros off for the day…"

Marty folded her arms at him and felt her grin get wider. "That ain't a no."

"…Damn you."

Victorious, Marty made eye contact with Ava and managed to somehow convey
through an uncomplicated impromptu sign language that they were going for a
burger and she was welcome to come with. To her credit, Ava looked pleased at
the invitation but immediately looked to Adam for confirmation and practically
_radiated_ delight when he nodded.

"Just so we're clear," Marty told her once Ava had retrieved her dog and
escaped from her colleagues with promises to bring them back a box of sliders
and donuts, "Please don't ask us about Hussein?"

"You can't confirm or deny anything and wouldn't be at liberty to discuss it,
whatever _'it'_ may or may not be. Something like that?" Ava asked, looking
amused.

"Something like that," Adam agreed.

"That's okay," Ava promised. "And don't worry, I'm never going to interview
either of you about anything. It's a bad idea to mix business and family.
Besides," she added with a rare smile, "I probably know more than you do right
now."

"No comment," Adam grunted. Ava drove an affectionate elbow into his ribs.

"_¡Tranqui, gordo!_ I just said you're permanently off-limits."

Adam caught Marty's eye, and she finally saw him relax. Ava didn't miss it
either, but rather than seeming disappointed she smiled and patted him on the
arm. "It's okay. Trust takes a long time to build. It… means a lot that you
both are giving me the chance."

She reached down and her fingers brushed through Hannah's fur for reassurance
after she said it. "Though, uh… word of advice? Us journalists are tricky.
Just saying that up front makes me feel like maybe you DO know something I'd
find interesting. You shoulda kept your mouth shut until I asked you."

"But we're off-limits," Adam sniped, with a touch of the uncharacteristic
bitterness that only surfaced when Ava was involved.

"Which is _why I'm warning you,_ you-!" Ava glanced down at the dog, took a
deep breath and reined herself in. "…Change of subject."

"Yeah," Marty agreed, feeling foolish. She'd been so keen to assuage Adam's
concerns that she'd blundered into a basic error. "But, thanks."

_"De nada._ Uh… Oh! Hayley said Jack's doing well?"

"I thought she didn't really approve?" Adam asked. "Military ain't exactly in
line with their peace-and-love lifestyle."

"Well yeah, but you know what she and Mark are like." Ava smiled fondly. "You
remember Mark's tattoos? _'An it harm none, do as thou wilt'?_ They always
were keen on a permissive upbringing. So long as Jack's doing what he really
wants to do, they won't fight him."

"That _'permissive upbringing'_ got Sara murdered," Adam growled.

"No argument," Ava agreed. "…But it was also what made her so beautiful to
know. Wasn't it?"

Adam didn't reply.

"…Besides," Ava continued. "Hayley's like any half-decent mom. So long as her
boy's happy, she's happy, and so long as he's a success she's proud."

"He's a success alright," Adam said. "We turned him 'round good."

"Hell, no wonder he was playing up at school," Marty volunteered. "No _way_ it
was challenging him properly. That boy could turn out to be smarter than
_Baseball."_

"Or you," Adam added, loyally. Marty felt the modest urge to demur that
Baseball was smarter than herself, but the fact was that they had different
kinds of intelligence. 'Base, if and when he retired, was going to wind up
authoring the next generation of books on trauma medicine. Marty was 'merely'
an _extremely_ talented aerospace engineer who'd been destined for NASA until
the SOR came along. Comparing a brain surgeon to a rocket scientist wasn't
exactly fair, especially when considering the fact she was going for burgers
with a sports and nutrition expert who had an unrivaled practical working
understanding of the human body, and a woman who was making increasingly
prominent waves both as a journalist and as an artist with every passing week.

Marty kept herself grounded on the certainty that, past a certain threshold,
there was no such thing as an absolute spectrum of _'more'_ intelligent and
_'less'_ intelligent. Her motto was "There is no such a thing as a stupid
person--just people who haven't yet figured out what they're smart at."

"I hope so", she said. "Means I taught him right. I mean-" she cleared her
throat, "Cimbrean schooling is _damn_ good, but he really needed the one-on-
one time."

"Pretty much all we _got_ was one-on-one time in the early years," Ava
recalled, looking around. "And dirt roads, prefab housing, no entertainment…
Now look at this place."

"Hell, it's changed just since _I_ got here," Marty agreed. "And you two are
first-gen colonists. I can't even… Musta been something special."

Adam and Ava glanced at each other before Ava spoke for both of them. "It was…
We were still kinda reeling from… I mean, we lost our _home!"_ she managed.
"My family, Adam's mom, all our friends, the only city we'd ever lived in…"

"We shoulda been in that, too," Adam agreed. "Pure dumb luck we weren't."

"It was just…" Ava looked down at her hands, and only stopped wringing them
when Hannah whined and licked her fingers, prompting a grateful scratch behind
the ears. "…Weeks and months of feeling _numb_, like I was gonna wake up
screaming from a bad dream any second no matter how much I knew I wasn't.
Every night, I had this dream where I woke up in my own bedroom and everything
was okay and Rosa was making breakfast, and-"

"Rosa?"

"She cleaned and cooked so mom and dad didn't have to. Rosa Vialpando. God,
she was… She had three grandchildren and she treated me like I was one of them
and I could be _such_ a bitch to her sometimes…" Ava wiped away a tear. "I
know I was fifteen, but still… I wish she'd been around a few years back.
Things maybe woulda turned out differently."

"You're beating yourself up again," Adam told her softly. Ava nodded, and
visibly backed out of Bad Memory Alley and returned to Memory Lane.

"…Stepping through the jump array that first time was like waking up. Just… a
blast of cool air to the face and my new best friend tripping over herself to
run up and say hi, and…"

"And when Sara started talking, _nothing_ stopped her. Sometimes she'd keep
talking while she was breathing in," Adam recalled. Ava giggled.

Marty nodded. "She's really special to both of you."

"Oh, she could be a brat," Adam laughed. "And she had the biggest crush on me.
And I think a bit of a one on you too, Ava?"

"Maybe… But, yeah. I'll never forget her. Hell, if I ever have kids, my first
girl is gonna be Sara."

"No way, I call first dibs," Adam grinned.

"Yeah?" Ava grinned at Marty. "Are you two…?"

"Uh… not yet." Marty balked.

"That ain't a no," Adam teased her with her own words.

"Well of _course_ it ain't a no!" Marty faced him. "Hell it's a yes, probably.
Just, not soon."

That got the intended result. Adam blushed and stammer-grumbled himself silent
while Ava folded her arms behind him and shot Marty an approving grin.

"Burger's waiting," she pointed out. They'd been standing outside Best Brioche
for nearly a minute.

"I'll, uh… three RWBs?"

"And a diet coke," Ava said.

"Marty?"

"Sprite."

"Right." Adam vanished into the shop, still red around the ears.

Marty and Ava stepped aside to let the shop's current customers exit, squeezed
out by Adam's sheer size. He had a way of doing that.

"I really enjoyed the exhibition tonight," Marty said.

"Thanks. And… thanks for inviting me. This is nice."

They had a moment to clear the air, and Marty decided not to let it go. "Ava…
I mean, you're real important to him. I hope you're not jealous about us,
or…?"

Ava shook her head with surprising vigor. "Absolutely not!" she said. "And
he's real important to me, too. I just want him to be happy, and you make him
_so_ happy, so… No, I can't be jealous. Especially not of you."

Touched, Marty gave her a hug. It caught Ava off-guard, but she returned it
with sisterly affection after only a moment's startled hesitation.

"So… seriously, _how_ do you see the things you see through that camera?"
Marty asked, letting her go.

"Uh… practice, mostly. I dunno, at first I was always thinking about things
like light and depth of field, aperture size, shutter speed… Nowadays it's
more intuitive. I look at something, think _'Yeah, I can work with that,'_ and
my hands do it all. You know?"

"Not really," Marty shrugged, and tapped her forehead. "My job's all up here.
Millimeters, pH balance, PSI, Bartlett's Law…"

"What's that?"

"Uh…" Marty recalled how she'd explained it to Jack. "So, Kinetic Pulse
weapons would be _stupidly_ lethal if we could just get them to fire a shaped
field with a sharp edge, right? Like, they'd just cut us in half." When Ava
nodded, she pressed on. " But, the power draw of a field is proportionate to
the curvature in an… _interesting_ way."

"Meaning it's really fucking complicated?"

"Right. Bartlett's law is the equation that describes that relationship. So,
big flat planes, boxes, cylinders or neat spheres? Nice and easy. Something
sharp enough to cut, though…"

"Yeah, I couldn't do your job," Ava agreed.

"Good, because there's not many of my job to go around," Marty smiled.
"Besides, the world needs photographers and journalists, and gourmet burger
chefs."

"Amen, sister," Ava giggled. "But… okay, if making a flat plane is easy, why
can't you just throw it sideways-on like a playing card?"

"Oh man, so that's a complicated one," Marty enthused, warming to her subject.
"It has to do with something called _'Fractal boundary indeterminacy'_ and
that's just-"

"Ah shit, you got her started," Adam interrupted, emerging with two paper-
wrapped bundles and a couple of cold metal cans on his arm, which he handed
out. "Bad idea."

"Hey!"

Adam grinned and kissed her. "True though."

"Where's yours?" Marty asked, taking her burger and drink.

"He's makin' them for me now," Adam replied, handing Ava hers. "And that box
for the news crew."

"Lemme guess. Three for you?" Marty asked

"Yup."

_"Orale!"_ Ava shook her head. "I remember how you complained about having to
eat so much in Basic."

"Well, I wasn't used to it then," Adam shrugged.

Ava snorted and tore into her burger like she'd been taking pointers from him
but she spared a slice of bacon for Hannah, who was practicing her very best
_'Sit'_ by Ava's ankle and staring soulfully upwards. "It'ff gowwa be a wong
night," she explained, delicately wiping an escaping squirt of Ranch dressing
back into her mouth before swallowing. "I'd better eat up and get back to the
crew. Editor's gonna want a report ready for the morning show and sync with
Earth."

"I bet. You're gonna be busy next few days, huh?" Adam asked. Ava nodded with
her mouth full.

"Thiff if…" she paused, frowned at herself, and finished her mouthful before
replying. "It's gonna be big. The GRA can't ignore this, they _have_ to do
something."

"Do what? That's the question." Marty pointed out.

Ava grimaced. "I have some ideas. But it's gonna be about the gesture at this
point, rather than punishing the people who are, 'yknow, _actually
responsible…"_

"Ava… be careful what you say, alright?" Marty advised.

"Back atcha. Don't worry, if anything classified leaks it won't be me."

Adam nodded solemnly. "Good. We don't wanna visit you in prison."

She gave him a complicated look that Marty read as gratitude that he was still
concerned for her well-being blended with mild and well-controlled irritation,
and stuffed the last of her burger in her mouth. She dusted her hands off and
pointed indoors to indicate that she, Ava, really ought to pay for the snack
boxes for her crew and get back to work.

Adam nodded and went back inside to retrieve it for her, and when he emerged
with the boxes and his own burgers Ava was chugging down the last of her soda.

"When did _you_ learn to eat that big?" he asked.

"I eat a lot of my meals _al desko_ nowadays," Ava shrugged, and took the
boxes. "I told you, it's gonna be a long night. See you at Dad's on Sunday?"

"Yeah. Take care."

She gave him a smile, and one for Marty too, and high-heeled away with Hannah
trotting smartly along in her wake.

Marty waited until she was around the corner to speak. "…Is she okay? I
mean…She's working awful hard…"

Adam gave a complicated shrug. "She throws herself into her work. So do I. So
do you!"

"Well… She's good at it," Marty conceded. "You've seen her on TV, right?"

"I don't watch much TV, remember?" Adam pointed out, correctly. His daily
regime really didn't allow any time for it.

"Well, she's good," Marty repeated. "You watch. Whatever goes down with GRA, I
bet you Ava will have called it…"

**Date Point: 12y6m1w AV**  
**Global Representative Assembly Headquarters, Cape Town, South Africa, Earth**

**_President Arthur Sartori_**

The White House had been home to a bewildering variety of First Families over
the years, though America was still waiting for a female or openly gay
President to furnish the history books with their first "First Gentleman."
Sartori, however, had not furnished Pennsylvania Avenue with a First
_anything_. He was the sixth president in a list that began with Thomas
Jefferson to have entered the White House as a widower, and his marriage to
the late Emily Sartori-Brown had been childless. He had never remarried.

To his surprise, that fact had generated sympathy rather than difficulty
during his election campaign. The nation by and large saw him as a man
remaining faithful to his wife's memory, and they weren't far wrong--Emily
would have _loved_ to tease him about how much he hated flying. He might have
the most famous aircraft in the world at his beck and call, but Sartori still
loathed leaving the ground.

Unfortunately, Air Force One was the only practical way to get to Africa on
short notice. So, he'd put on his big-boy pants, boarded the plane in a
serious bustle, taken a half dose of diazepam and caught up on his much-needed
sleep. Unconscious was the only way to fly.

Besides. It was always best to look sharp and well-rested when addressing an
emergency meeting of some of the most powerful people in the world. The Global
Representative Assembly had precious little political power on Earth, but it
was _the_ voice of authority when it came to extraterrestrial matters.

…Assuming it ever developed a unified opinion on anything, of course. In the
years since its foundation, the GRA had yet to take a strong unified stance.
By and large, it had been too riven by the hangover of the past few decades of
religious conflict, economic turmoil, political bickering, the Pacific trade
wars, and now the massive technological and social upheavals of the
interstellar era. The will had simply never been there to properly align
behind a single cause.

Perhaps that would change today.

Scratch that. That was pussy-foot thinking. That _would_ change today. The
time had come for the rest of the world to get with the program or get out of
the way, and if the assassination of the GRA's own ambassador wasn't catalyst
enough then nothing ever would be.

Much thought had gone into the GRA HQ building. Its construction had begun
with the creation of an artificial tidal lagoon just north of a Cape Town
suburb with the incongruously Welsh name of Llandudno, a wealthy spot that had
for several years been looking for an excuse to go even further up-market than
it already was.

That lagoon provided several benefits. It generated power from the tide,
created a protected beach ideal for safe recreation, provided habitat for
several native species, and made the GRA building surprisingly secure just by
itself. The only overland routes to the building were narrow, closely-watched
roads laid with several hundred retractable reinforced bollards. Any car bomb,
van full of gunmen or other suspicious vehicle was doomed to be brought to a
violent halt even if it did get past the checkpoints.

All of the security measures were similarly invisible. Between the
forcefields, the reinforced glass, the shutters and the panic rooms
honeycombing the building's interiors, GRA HQ was a fortress that looked like
an elaborate sculpture in glass and granite.

The Assembly chamber itself was simple and to-the-point. Serious wooden
furniture underpinned by miles of cabling and support infrastructure. There
were more seats than were technically needed, in anticipation of the future
growth and political independence of offworld colonies, and all of them were
arranged in a horseshoe around the speaker's podium and looking out through
tall windows onto the waters of the Atlantic.

Appropriately, those waters were choppy today.

So was the mood. The report into Ambassador Hussein's assassination was
detailed and thorough, and while every man and woman in the room was used to
the interminable pace of these things it seemed that everybody was itching to
leap to their feet and say their piece. Sartori had enjoyed ample time to jot
down his own notes on the report, compare them with those of his advisors,
send the most pertinent details away for analysis and then read the digested
summary on the monitor in front of him.

All of which was fine… except that the preliminary investigation was clearly
unaware of, and would have been unable to mention, DEEP RELIC. The Hierarchy's
existence was not known to most of the nations represented in the Assembly
chamber and was being kept that way.

Option number one, right at the top of Sartori's list of possibilities, was
correcting that today. He had the authority to declassify DEEP RELIC with a
pen-stroke if he chose, and a passionate but civilized debate was raging
quietly on his screen as to whether that was the correct course of action
here.

Sartori watched the debate with interest. As far as he was concerned, official
and full revelation of the existence of the Hierarchy would be an open
invitation for _some_ crazy bastards somewhere on the planet to try and ally
with the genocidal aliens. The Earth had some breathing room thanks to
Operation EMPTY BELL, but that breathing room could vanish fast if somebody
with any influence or power pulled a Quisling.

On the other hand the whole problem was escalating in an enormous way, and so
far the human race was still figuratively fighting with one hand tied behind
its back. Sooner or later, that handicap was going to take its toll. They
needed to start getting some more resources, some more talent and some more
_humanity_ on board.

And that just wasn't going to happen, and anybody with more political
perspicacity than a stunned puppy knew it. Not without both a kick in the nuts
and the promise of some actual _benefit_ on the horizon. And in any case, when
it came down to it the resources of two planets just wasn't going to cut it,
especially when one of those planets had a total population that wouldn't even
put it in the top three hundred American cities.

So far, one of his senior advisors had been silent, and the time was
approaching where he needed her to speak. Margaret White was in the habit of
offering her opinions last after everyone else had spoken, and it was
generally a valuable habit, but right now he needed her to weigh in.

She got the message just from the way he turned and looked at her and sat
forward primly in her seat to whisper.

"We need to acknowledge that there is **_a_** threat…" she offered. "Without
going into specifics. Infer the presence of enemy action from the forcefield,
San Diego, this…"

"Paul reckons we need to throw a bigger bone than that," Sartori indicated his
screen. Paul Nicholls was another of his advisors, and was safely back in
Washington offering his insights from the comfort of his office.

"A closed session, maybe?" Margaret offered. "If we share some of the details
of that Egyptian business…"

"That'll piss off the Egyptians…" Sartori mused. "Not that we can't handle
that, but…"

"Needs must."

"We didn't share much with the Egyptians, either. This would anger them doubly
so."

"Again, Mister President, needs must. The only question as I see it is how far
we go."

Margaret was an old friend and colleague. She only called him _'Mister
President'_ when she was deadly serious.

"…Right."

Sartori filed a request to speak in a closed session with the Assembly's
Speaker, who had the unenviable task of not only overseeing the discussions
and points of order, but also of managing precedence and etiquette. In theory
every nation at the Assembly was on an equal footing, but diplomatic reality
of course was more sophisticated. The seniority of the supplicant, the
political importance of their nation and the relevance of the comment they
wished to make were all factored in.

When the POTUS promised to contribute something highly relevant, Sartori knew,
he was pretty much guaranteeing himself the first place in the queue.

The remaining minutes waiting for the official report to wind to its
conclusion were spent quickly assembling the key points of what he was about
to say, a process streamlined immeasurably by the involvement of his chief
speechwriter, five senior advisors and the Secretary of Defence. Sartori and
the speechwriter did the actual writing, the other six added notes in the
figurative margin, and within five minutes he had everything he needed.

Sartori stood and tugged at his cuff to straighten it as the Speaker opened
the floor, and as expected was immediately given the first comment.

"May I request a closed session, Mister Speaker?" he asked, politely. The
etiquette of the chamber was respected.

There were disappointed noises from the public galleries as press and tourists
alike were quietly ushered out. The windows dissolved into gray blandness as
the privacy fields came online, the cameras were shut down. No doubt the
thrust of his words would leak through _one_ of the present dignitaries and
functionaries, but the important part was that it would all be second-hand,
and thus deniable.

The last door closed, the lights dimmed, and Sartori found himself
spotlighted.

He looked down at his hands and brushed them lightly across the desk in front
of him before speaking.

"I want to begin by acknowledging the human cost here," he began. "Ambassador
Hussein's family are grieving today and it would be remiss of us to forget
that. But they are not the only grieving families. After all, we are at war."

He looked up and around. _"At_ war," he repeated. "Not _should go to war,_ nor
are we debating the validity of today's _casus belli._ I want to argue that we
**_have been_** at war for several years now, and it is the bloodiest we have
seen since the nineteen-forties. Millions are already dead, billions of
dollars of war debt has been accrued, good men have lost their lives in combat
operations…We. Are. At. War."

It would have been better if the words had rang, but the chamber's acoustics
were not designed with dramatic effect in mind. In fact, they were designed
for his fellow dignitaries to listen to real-time translation, and so his
words were swallowed by dead sound and the white noise of the forcefields. It
was a shame: A shoddy orator could stand on good acoustics. A decent orator
could fly on them.

Sartori was an exceptional orator. He didn't need acoustics at all.

"Our species is imprisoned, and we have done nothing. Our people were thrown
to the wolves, and we did nothing!" He angled a sharp glance around the
chamber, saw allies nodding and others listen solemnly. "Galactic nations tear
each other apart and blame us, and we don't even _object!_ Our good green
Earth is permanently scarred by an antimatter bomb, millions have perished,
our economy is laboring… and our response is to act as though life continues
as it always did? When it's now **clear** that a force out there wants us all
dead?"

He shook his head. "No. This Assembly may have been content to let the litany
of injustices continue, but America and our military allies have not. When San
Diego burned, _we_ hunted the party responsible. When an alien ship invaded
our sky to inflict the most sickening cruelties on innocent civilians, _our_
jets swatted it from the Egyptian sky!"

He paused, adjusted his cuff again and shot a glance at the Egyptian table to
gauge their reaction. When he read nothing he could use in their expressions,
he sighed wearily for effect. "Let me tell you a little of our Enemy. I can't
say much because even now, even here, they are listening and they will seek
every advantage. So I shall cover only the basics."

He took a sip of water and raised a hand to punctuate his words with gestures.
"They are old. Vast and ancient beyond the reckoning of our civilization. They
are cunning. Many others have fallen to them, and the peoples no longer here
to enrich our Galaxy number in the hundreds--that we are aware of. The body
count is in the trillions, the measure of loss, the suffering and the
retardation of the sciences and the arts… incalculable. They are subtle. Their
influence has shaped Galactic society and passed unnoticed. They are cynical,
pitting team against team, nation against nation, Dominion against Alliance. "

He paused again, partly for dramatic effect and partly to reel himself in.
That last part had perhaps been a bit too revealing but he needed the
emphasis.

"And they are not afraid of overt action, either," he added. "San Diego was
their work. Egypt was a reaction to our rooting out the last of their
Earthbound force. They are ruthless, willing to use even the Hunters as a
weapon if it will suit their ends. But the worst, by far…"

He took a deep, nasal breath and allowed his volume to dip again. Like good
music, the loud and the soft needed to dance. "The very worst part of our
Enemy is that they are callous. Like our own Earthly terrorists but on a scale
we have never seen, they hide among the innocent and hold those innocent lives
in the most negligent contempt. For _our_ defiance, billions of innocents have
been slaughtered and _we_ are made to take the blame. Our Ambassador,
murdered, and as we all heard the last he asked of them was what we could do
to make things right."

He paused a third time and took another sip of his water. The room was stone
silent. "Why do I speak of this now?" Rhetorical oration was one of Sartori's
guilty pleasures. "Because it is now clear that there's no sympathy to be had
out there: we are _trapped._ We're a small island in a vast cruel sea,
valiantly fending off a numerically superior foe…" he glanced at the British
table "…but there is no help from abroad coming this time. If we're going to
get out of this hole, then we need to dig our way out by ourselves. We need to
get our eggs _out_ of this single basket, as a matter of survival."

He glared around the room and repeated that last word. "Survival. _That_ is
how high the stakes are at this table. _That_ is what we are playing for--the
right for our children to see tomorrow. We can keep turning the other cheek,
we can forgive those who trespass against us… But then what? Do we go quietly
into the night? Do we join the hundreds before us and allow hundreds more to
come after us?"

He looked around, attempting to convey with a single sweep of his gaze that he
had singled out everyone in the room for his personal attention. "…Or has the
time come for us to show the galaxy that we are not the monsters here? Has the
time _finally_ come for us to acknowledge that **_we are at war…_** and that
we are not willing to lose?"

Somehow, those last words managed to ring even in the dead air of the assembly
chamber, buoyed by the silent susurrus of rapt breath. Sartori allowed himself
a satisfied nod and stood up straight.

"The good news," he said, "is that our strategy doesn't rely on sacrifice, but
on _opportunity._ There are worlds out there waiting for us, untouched
paradises shunned by other species as unusable _'deathworlds'_ and our best
minds--scientists, engineers, even artists--have been devoting themselves to
the task of unlocking those new promised lands."

"The way isn't open yet," he shook his head, and let the volume fall again,
until he was speaking almost as though conspiring quietly with all of them.
"But I invite you all to imagine _your_ culture, not just mine or those of our
military allies, walking the stars, leaving your mark, writing yourselves into
the future of mankind. Does that sound like sacrifice to you? Does that sound
like _war?"_

He looked down at his hands, and absent-mindedly touched the gold wedding band
he had never taken off. "Make no mistake. It _will_ be war. It _is_ war. Quite
probably a bloody and difficult one that will last lifetimes and rob us of our
best and bravest time and again. We will ask ourselves, _'will it be worth
it?'_ We will ask ourselves, _'how far are we willing to go?'_ I don't know.
Maybe this won't even be a war we can win. Maybe we'll only win it by becoming
the monsters they claim we are. If so, maybe it _would_ be better to die with
our souls untarnished, but…"

He paused for one last time, and shook his head.

"…But I have faith."

**Date Point: 12y6m1w3d AV**  
**Grand Enclave of Females, Planet Gao.**

**_Sister Myun_**

_"Faith?"_

Being Yulna's personal protector was generally an easy job. After all, who
would attack her? The Mother-Supreme was, well… the _Mother-Supreme._ Any male
who so much as scratched her would never mate again even if he survived, and
the Females were _clan._

Myun still took her duties seriously, though. Especially now, especially after
hearing those words that the Whitecrests had somehow managed to acquire and
forward. Even the Gaori translation had been engaging but as a fluent English
speaker herself she had felt the full impact of Sartori's address. She wasn't
sure her fur would ever settle.

Yulna was listening to the recording with much more calm, resting her jaw
lightly on a curled forepaw while tracing a claw idly across the glass surface
of her desk.

"Sister Shoo tried to explain the concept once," she said, addressing the
Mother who had asked. "It is… a difficult one. Do you remember, Myun?"

Myun duck-nodded solemnly.

"It means something like… trust, or confidence," Yulna elaborated. "But
_more._ Trust based on conviction rather than hard evidence."

"So this Sar-toree is saying that he trusts his people despite not having a
good reason?" the Mother summarized.

Yulna angled her head contemplatively. "No… No, that would be an admission of
weakness. _'Faith'_ is a strong concept. He's saying he doesn't **need** a
good reason to believe it, he knows it to be true anyway. Something like
that."

"And _this_ is the species that the Whitecrests want us aligned with?" Mother
Suri asked, with an ill-concealed lick of contempt. She had been Yulna's rival
to the position of Mother-Supreme and while she had accepted Yulna's accession
in the end she had still maneuvered herself into the heart of Clan power.

Yulna insisted she was useful. Something about it being good to hear a
dissenting voice and Suri still being one of the good people, even if there
were profound differences of opinion between them.

"That 'faith' kept Sister Shoo going where any of _us_ would have curled up in
a mournful ball and given up," Yulna replied. "It let the humans trust Regaari
despite only meeting him once, and it let them trust me, too. I don't really
know what it is or how it works, but it does. The Starminds might know better…
Father Gyotin has thought long and hard on the subject, I understand."

Myun couldn't keep her thoughts to herself. "You're overthinking it. Faith
isn't anything supernatural or anything like that. It's just belief. It's
belief that good people are good and will do good things. It's belief that
there is such a thing as justice. It's just 'faith' in the basic sanity of the
universe. Why is that so hard?"

Suri and several of the other Mothers shot her mingled looks of irritation,
impatience and disgust at the interruption. Yulna, for her part, chittered
indulgently.

"You should know that nothing is ever simple with humans, young one."

"Nah, they're _really_ simple. They just…do everything intensely.
_Everything._ They're like Whitecrest that way. If they don't like you, you'll
know it. If they do…well, they'll have 'faith' in you, and they won't be
wrong."

Suri growled slightly. "You are a bodyguard, Myun, not an advisor."

Myun displayed a rare bout of political tact and duck-nodded respectfully,
backing down.

"Good advice can be found scrawled on the wall in a stinking back alley,"
Yulna observed, though the set of her ears made it plain to everyone in the
room that she wasn't insulting Myun in the slightest. "What matters is that
you listen to it, not where it came from. And Myun, frankly, has studied
humans rather more extensively than anybody else here."

"Nevertheless…" Suri flicked an ear.

"Yes, yes." Yulna waved a paw at Myun that said _'please shut up'_ in a
kindly, materteral way and Myun stepped respectfully back into the corner. She
was learning a lot about politics.

"The whole speech is just… paranoid, though. Surely?" one of the Mothers
asked. "They're _deathworlders,_ they must be primed to see danger behind
every corner."

"Maybe…" Yulna agreed thoughtfully. "But that doesn't mean they're wrong, does
it?"

"If you see danger behind every corner, sooner or later you'll be right,"
another Mother agreed.

"And they are primed to sense danger, are they not? That let them build an
advanced society on _Earth,_ which from what we know may in a practical sense
be the deadliest planet in the galaxy."

"Mother Ayma survived it, didn't she?" There was a doubtful note in Suri's
skepticism.

"With the aid of an environment suit and full-time medical escort."

Myun whispered _"Beef Brothers"_ to herself quietly, with the faintest
chitter.

The Mother who was taking Yulna's side--Memi? Memya? Something like that--
didn't seem to notice. "No," she said, "I think we can safely say that when a
human is taking a threat seriously, then that threat is _worth_ taking
seriously. From what I know of them their lives are so… _saturated_ with
constant low-grade dangers that they tend to just ignore them, or view them as
an inconvenience."

"Example?" Suri's ally demanded. Mother… Sesal. No, Sesala.

"They have to scrub enamel-eating bacteria out of their mouths every morning
or else their teeth literally rot," Yulna offered with, Myun thought,
considerable relish. "And apparently a lot of them just don't bother, or
forget. And sometimes that doesn't even matter. But sometimes it does and they
can actually _die_ from it. They have medical professionals who are concerned
_only_ with their teeth. _'Dentists'_ I think."

"This seems contradictory," Suri complained. "They'll ignore a threat like
_that_ but we're supposed to take them seriously when they get concerned over…
what, a conspiracy to eradicate their whole species?"

"Well…if the mere fact of waking up could prove dangerous, wouldn't you be
numbed to all the little threats? What would it take to get your attention if
a cut on a finger, a bit of food in the teeth, even brushing up against the
wrong plant could kill you dead or leave you permanently scarred? You would be
a neurotic wreck in short order."

Suri and Sesala both lapsed into thoughtful silence.

Yulna let them think for a second as she sipped a contemplative glass of
_Talamay._ "Besides. What happened to their city _'San Diego'_ is hard to
explain _except_ by conspiracy…I think the correct approach here is to at
least entertain the possibility that their fears are valid. We can leave final
judgement for when we know more."

"And until then?" Memi inquired.

"Until then, I will speak to Champion Genshi and the other Champions as I see
fit, and we shall discover what this threat might be. Because if it threatens
the Humans…sooner or later, it will threaten us. The recent rumblings in the
Dominion Security Council about our world…"

"We are _not_ a deathworld," Suri asserted, sharply.

"Does it matter? The official classification is headed that way and if it
is…Well. I won't debate whether or not Gao really is or is becoming a
Deathworld, leave that to the Highmountain philosophers. I am more worried
about the attention it draws and the political consequences."

"Besides, the Guvnurag prove that it doesn't really matter," Mother Memi
observed. "They are most definitely _not_ deathworlders, and yet they bore the
worst of it this time."

"Yes, what do we do about them?" Suri asked. "We're obligated to do
_something,_ aren't we?"

"We offer as much aid as we can, discreetly, and we communicate that to the
Clans," Yulna declared. "I suspect they may not be willing to entertain a
public gesture given our burgeoning relationship with the Humans. Perhaps a
sanctuary colony on Gorai? I'd need to pay a favor to Stoneback…would the
Guvnurag accept? Hmm…" She trailed off in thought.

"And what do we do if the Hunters decide that we're next?" Sesela asked.

Yulna chittered darkly. "Get eaten, I suspect. Though I for one will claw a
few eyes out, first. And I'm sure Myun here would go down fighting."

Myun said nothing but she did flex her enormous, Stoneback-ish claws just for
a second, feeling smugly superior. She savored the intimidated flick of Mother
Sesela's ear.

"…_That_ cannot be your whole answer?" Suri seemed aghast rather than
accusatory.

"Unless the males have somehow managed to build a million ships of their own
in secret? It _is_ the whole answer." Yulna chittered darkly again. "And so we
come back to the strange ways of danger and threat. That particular threat is
simply… too big to worry about, for now. And that, my Sisters, I think is what
the Humans must feel _all the time."_

"…I should at least see if there is anything we can do to protect the cubs,"
Suri suggested.

"Yes," Yulna duck-nodded emphatically. "You're right. Sensible precautions, of
course. Precautions we should all take, I think."

They all took the hint, duck-nodded respectfully, and made themselves scarce.

"Well. That was easy," Yulna commented.

Myun resisted the urge to chitter, barely. As Yulna's permanent protector she
hadn't moved while the Mothers let themselves out. "Easy?"

"I'd expected…a real fight. That was barely a token resistance. The death of
billions sharpens the mind, I suppose."

Myun found she couldn't argue that point, and simply duck-nodded agreeably.

"Tell me, Myun, if a Hunter charged in here right now…?" Yulna let the
question hang.

Myun broke out her _human_ grin, the one she had practiced endlessly in front
of a mirror and that showed off all her teeth. "Just one?"

"…Good girl." Yulna nodded with a pleased set of her ears then sighed quietly,
recomposed herself and asked, "Next item on the schedule?"

Myun consulted the list. "Grandfather Meyku, Clan Straightshield."

"I invited Champion Reeko as well, didn't I?"

"He's on Gorai, Mother. Something about a new precinct…?"

"Ah. In light of recent events…maybe we should take another page from the
Humans and discuss our civil defense."

Myun was learning that when Yulna asked a question like that, she wasn't
actually requesting an answer, it was more a way of helping herself think.
Rather than reply, therefore, she busied herself straightening the office so
that it seemed as though the Mothers had not been there. She also alerted the
staff discreetly, who prepared an agenda and a briefing in the few short
minutes before Grandfather Meyku arrived.

She hadn't expected to be doing so much minute organisation for Yulna when she
took the job, but she found that she quite enjoyed it. Just standing around
with a sword would have been _boring_ after all, but the moment she started
thinking of herself as the gatekeeper for the Mother-Supreme's attention she
had realized that guarding Yulna's body and guarding her schedule amounted to
almost the same thing.

She was getting to know the Grandfathers too, and they were all entertainingly
different. Garl of the Stonebacks tended to _prowl_ into a room and throw
himself onto the furniture as though he wasn't twenty years the wrong side of
old, and he left white hairs on _everything._ Myun found herself oddly and
powerfully attracted to him…maybe one day. Soon. Before he died of too much
mating, the smug sexy _'asshole.'_

Grandfather Myro of the Goldpaws was sleeker, slimmer and flowed across the
world like one of those 'otters' Myun once saw on _'Planet Earth.'_ Yulna had
once said he was as sleek and slippery in the world of finance as he was in
real life. Myun didn't know what was meant by that, but there'd been no
mistaking the wink in Yulna's voice when she'd said something similar about
Myro and mating contracts. Mothers could be such _'hens.'_

Meyku _sailed._ He was upright, polite, direct and mostly unflappable, and had
a pole up his ass that could have moored a megafreighter. But somehow he was
friendly, too. Weird.

And he got right to the point. "We have a lot to discuss, Mother-Supreme."

"That we do," Yulna agreed, doing an excellent job of hiding her weariness.
"Myun, some _Talamay_ please?"

"Yes, Mother," Myun duck-nodded and attended to her own role in this long
diplomatic dance. She now had readying the snacks and drinks down to an
efficient art.

"So, Grandfather…" Yulna said, as soon as the stage was set. "There is an
interesting recording I think you should hear…"

**Date Point 12y6m2w AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Vemik Sky-Thinker_**

Vemik had once spent half a day watching the wriggling things in the gut of a
dead Neyma and watching them blacken and buzz away. The rotting flesh had made
the air taste awful, and the flying buzzers had wanted to land on his face,
but he'd kept watching hoping to catch the moment when little white wriggler
became little black buzzer.

Right now, his head felt like that Neyma carcass--full of wriggling things. It
always did after his _'wessons'_ with Shyow. Or like she had somehow packed a
handful of smoldering tinder in there; his thoughts just refused to settle
down and turn into something that made sense.

Or maybe like that time Jooyun had taken him into the flying hut and a strange
yellow light had made his whole body tickle, especially his teeth. _That_ had
been an exciting day, and in the end the Sky-People had resorted to begging
Yan to drag Vemik out of there again, which he did with an amused snarl. The
big Given Man hadn't even paused at the _'anatomy dispway,'_ either! He just
threw Vemik out of the ship and wrestled him half-dead. Like always.

It wasn't that _'Engwish'_ was difficult, not at all. He'd been shocked and
surprised to discover that the words Shyow, Jooyun and Awisun spoke were
so…easy. Strangely so. None of the words changed, or at least never by much!
Each word was like…a little stone. Whether he held it, put it down in front of
him or threw it in the air, the stone's shape never changed. It didn't matter
what you did with a word in _Engwish,_ it kept its shape.

Which made sense, when he thought about it. The _meaning_ never changed after
all, so why should the word? And like stones, the _order_ that the words were
laid down in mattered: Nobody ever made a trail mark by just throwing the
stones down in a rambling heap the way Vemik often did with his words when
thinking out loud. Every time he wanted to say _anything_ in Engwish, he was
forced to pause, think _hard_, and say it only after he had already built it
in his head.

Clearly, the Sky-People thought about everything they did before they did it.

He was getting good at it too, or at least he thought. He knew how it
_behaved_ at least, but that was the easy part. The difficult part was how
_many_ words there were. It was like trying to make a trail marker while
having more stones to choose from than there were stars in the night, several
of which would mean _nearly_ what he wanted to say, but only one of which
meant _exactly_ what he wanted to say..

There was only one thing to do: Keep learning new words.

And Shyow said she had mastered the words of **_three_** sky-tribes who spoke
in such intricate ways. _And_ she had mastered the words of Vemik's tribe in
just a hand's-worth of days. The idea that any head could be so full of so
many different words, especially when so many of those words meant things that
Vemik had simply never thought of…

There were words to describe different _kinds_ of word! The very thought of
all those words in Shyow's head made the feeling of things crawling around
inside Vemik's own skull get worse.

Jooyun at least was sympathetic there.

"Heh!" He made that strange, friendly laughing-sound the sky-people made. His
was quite different from Awisun's, which was a harsh bark, or Shyow's which
was a kind of bubbling musical thing. Jooyun's was soft, deep and warm but
never loud. _Jooyun_ was never loud, for that matter, not even when he played.
["Don't worry, buddy.] Xiu [makes me feel dumb too, sometimes. And I'm
supposed to be the _'science'_ guy."]

They were out exploring after the morning _'wessons'_ about sky-people words--
_'wanguage'_ he remembered--and after Jooyun and Vemet had come back from the
day's hunting. They had eaten, and Jooyun had snuck some more People-food when
Awisun wasn't looking, and shared some of his. It had little balls of meat and
a red sauce of some kind, very tasty! It also had _'noodows'_ that were a kind
of _'pasta.'_ Vemik avoided 'pastas.' They were tasty too but they made his
stomach unhappy and he would fart loudly for the rest of the day.

After that there was the usual camp chores, and a solemn moment with Yan and
Singer for the day's blessing, and then…they went exploring. Vemik had,
naturally, asked why it was that Awisun objected to about Jooyun eating a
fresh kill.

["We come from a long way from here,"] Jooyun had answered. ["Where the
sickness is different.] Allison [worries that I might get very sick if I'm not
careful."]

Vemik had thought about that, picking his words carefully. ["Is not she
right?"] he ventured.

["Isn't."] Jooyun corrected gently. ["And…yes, she is. But we carry all our
food with us and…You know how sometimes, you need to smoke something to keep
it good, but the smoke tastes bad? Or you get bored of the same thing for a
whole season? Yeah. That."]

Apparently, exploring was what Jooyun, Shyow and Awisun _did._ As they had
explained it, their flying hut could go anywhere. Shyow had said that the
stars were other suns, or that the sun was a star up close and that under each
sun there was another sky above other People with their own gods. Jooyun had
invited him to imagine being far from his village at night and looking back to
see the village fire in the dark, small and cold and distant but still
_there._

Jooyun refused to talk about his own gods, though, but he had promised to
explain why when they had the words.

But the smoking thing. Vemik had a hard time believing that! ["But your bag-
food is tasty!"]

["Rations. The word is _'rations.'_ Rations are a kind of preserved food."]

["Wations."] Vemik tasted the word, aware yet again that he was getting one of
the sounds wrong, which was annoying because he could make the sound
_sometimes_ but not _always._ It turned out that sky-people had different-
shaped _tongues_ to go with all their other strangeness. And they could
'smeww' with the face-holes! They didn't taste the air at all!

That reminded him of a question he'd been meaning to ask since learning about
_'smewwing'_ yesterday, and he shot off on what Awisun had described as a
_'tangent.'_ He had no idea what a tangent was exactly, but there were other
questions he wanted to ask before he got to that one.

["What do we 'smeww' wike?"]

Jooyun laughed in his quiet way again. He had more patience for the way
Vemik's questions jinked and dodged like root-birds than Shyow or Awisun did,
mostly. ["Not too bad. Like you're doing honest work all day."]

That sounded like a good thing to Vemik so he trilled happily in response. At
that same moment he spotted a different kind of herb that Jooyun hadn't
gathered yet and bounced over to point it out. Jooyun shook his head in the
way the sky-people did when they were happily indulging Vemik's questions.
Like Yan, really. Yan would share if he wasn't doing much else.

"Mazaanok! [Careful, this one has…"] Godshit, another word he didn't know. He
thought for a moment, then bit down on a finger with one of his small young-
man fangs and made a big show of hurting.

"Mazaanok, [huh? Good name."] Jooyun nodded and approached carefully, then
peered at it from a safe distance. ["Ah. Those are 'thorns,' and big ones too.
Are they 'poisonous?'"]

["Thorns. Thorn!"] That word had a nice sound and Vemik liked it. He tilted
his head at the other word. ["Poisuunus?"]

["Poisonous. The root word is 'poison,' which is something that's not alive
that can make you very sick. The '-ous' in this case means the word is 'full
of' the root. So something that's 'poisonous' is full of poison. Make sense?"]

["…Poisun."] He corrected himself. ["Pois_on."_]

["_Pois_on."]

["Poison."] He got it! ["Yes. The 'thorns' are 'poisonous.' Make skin burn and
itch."] Vemik suddenly thought, ["But plants are alive!"] In People-words,
plants were _always_ a living thing when you stuck endings on a word.

Julian knelt by the mazaan bush and dug in his bag where he pulled out a pair
of the limp hand-bag-garments called _'gloves'_ that he used whenever he
wanted to handle something without touching it with his bare skin. ["Yeah,
they are. But the poison itself isn't, it's just as dead as a rock."]

That made sense to Vemik. ["Okay."]

Jooyun worked in silence for a few seconds, respectfully clipping off a few
bits of the plant and storing them in strange clear things like a kind of
small pot made of warm ice. As he put the _'samples'_ away in his bag he
tilted his head and asked, ["So what do we, uh, taste like?"]

["Like…you three, not the same. Shyow tastes like water and fruit. I don't
know _what_ Awisun tastes like. I…no words for it."]

["_'Solvent'_ and _'soap,'_ probably. I'll tell you what those are later, I
promise…I think she smells nice. They both smell…pretty _'incredible'_
actually. To me."]

Vemik nodded. Jooyun was always good on his word about explanations.

["What about me?"] Jooyun asked.

["You taste wike a Person, in a different way. Your hair tastes strange."]

He knew that taste from one of their moments of play while out exploring.
Vemik was pleased to learn he was a _good_ wrestler compared to Jooyun, and
could do things like wrap his tail around Jooyun and _squeeze_ the same way
Yan often did when playing. But Jooyun could do things Vemik couldn't like
stand up and _'run'_ instead of charge, and when he started _'running'_ he
_just didn't stop._ He could _'jog'_ slower and way, way longer too.

And he could carry _lots_ of heavy things in his clever, rough-feeling many-
pocket-bag--his _'backpack'_--and carry them _forever_ and not get tired.
Vemik wasn't sure how that worked, because he was pretty sure he was actually
a good bit stronger than Jooyun…sky-people were strange.

Jooyun made a satisfied noise. ["Ah, that's probably the 'shampoo.'"] Jooyun
said. ["It's a kind of soap. Soap, by the way, is really good for cleaning
hides and tanning them. I can show you how to make it one of these days--ah!"]

He turned and jogged a few steps off the trail to study an exposed rock.
["Limestone. Perfect. Add this to your list of 'things you should have lots
of' 'cuz this stuff is _really_ useful."]

Vemik gave the pale stone a skeptical stare. ["Is it? It breaks and you can't
make bwades from it."]

Julian laughed again. ["Vemik, this stuff can help you make blades like this
one."] He patted his axe. ["You just have to know the trick. But you need to
be patient,"] he warned, ["The trick is _'complicated'_ and we need other
things, too. Like _'Hematite.'_ And clay. And you'll need to make a big pile
of charcoal too, unless we find _'Anthracite'_ lying about…"]

["What are--?"] Vemik began. Jooyun aimed an apologetic smile at him.

["Believe me, you'll understand much better when I _show_ you. But the simple
way of saying it is that if I take this stuff and some other rocks that you
probably don't think are useful and put them together in a _really_ hot fire,
then the rocks flow like water and glow like fire and you get this stuff."] He
patted his axe again.

["We have a story about rocks flowing like water!"] Vemik blurted, and bounced
around Jooyun and halfway up a tree out of sheer excitement at getting to tell
the sky-person something he didn't already know.

Jooyun rocked back on those long, straight sky-person legs and folded his
arms, grinning. ["Yeah? Tell me."]

Vemik took hold of a branch with his tail and both feet and swung upside-down
in front of Jooyun's face. ["Yan said that in the time of his _old_
grandfathers the mountain spat fire and rivers of fire ran down it!"]

Julian always laughed whenever Vemik hung upside down or something, but this
time his laughter faded and he frowned. ["…This story. How long ago?"]

["Yan said…the time of his grandfather's grandfather's grandfather?"] Vemik
hazarded. ["Maybe there was another grandfather in there, I am not sure."]

["…How long do you expect to live, Vemik?"]

["Uh…well, Yan says he's been around for two hands of four hands of seasons?"]

Jooyun looked like he was sky-thinking. ["So he's about…_'fifty'_ then, so
that's at least one _'eruption'_ within the last…_'two hundred years'_ or
so…well. Fuck."]

Vemik already knew _that_ word, and had figured out he wasn't supposed to. It
was comforting to know that sky-people had swearing too, and he liked
_'fuck.'_ It had weight.

["Is…that bad?"]

Jooyun sighed, exactly like any of the People would. ["Yeah, it's a big
problem. It means your whole _'species'_ is mostly living in and around an
_'active caldera'_ and that is bad in a big, big way."]

There were Important words in there that Vemik didn't know, but he had to
start at the bad part first. ["…how bad?"]

Jooyun stared at him, then turned around and headed back in the direction of
the forest camp. ["We should get back."]

Oh.

_That_ bad.

**Date Point 12y6m2w AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_The Entity_**

The Entity knew what _'frantic'_ felt like, though the emotion didn't quite
map to anything it permitted itself to feel. Frantic overlapped with panic;
panic robbed precision and thought and got in the way of _+SURVIVE+_ and thus
the Entity had done whatever it could to expunge that particular emotion
altogether.

Nevertheless, it was as close as it ever got to being frantic with worry right
now. _Somebody_ had come to this planet. Somebody with a spaceship, and thus
who was capable of understanding and discovering the Entity. If they had
implants, then any Hierarchy demons riding in their brains would know
immediately that **665**'s operation had stalled and never resumed. The
Hierarchy would investigate, the Entity might be caught…

And physical objects were so _slow!_ An Abrogator had a maximum overland
travel speed under optimal conditions of about thirty miles an hour, but a
dense temperate rainforest was decidedly suboptimal.

After too many days of travel it was finally getting close now, though. The
Entity didn't have hands or any physical part to its being at all but if it
_did_ then those hands would have been shaking and its palms sweating. There
were too many unknowns here, too many variables. It had no idea who or what
the landing ship belonged to, but it had come down near the destroyed
Abrogator and the last known location of **665**'s problematic tribe.

The scout drones were faster, but Hierarchy technology had never quite managed
to produce miniaturized power sources that could meet their energy demands.
They were battery-powered, and thus had a limited range. If it didn't care
about getting the drones back it could have already sent them, but needlessly
wasting those drones on an over-reach scouting mission would interfere with
future scouting, multiplying the unknowns.

Unknowns were lethal. Unknowns violated _+SURVIVE+._ Unknowns would be
eradicated with extreme sanction.

It launched the scout drones.

**Date Point 12y6m2w AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Allison Buehler_**

The annoying thing about bodyguarding Xiu was that it was so easy to believe
she didn't need it. Allison had seen her take down a guy much larger than her
without much difficulty, knew of at least one nose that Xiu had broken and was
acutely aware that they'd tracked her down as much on her reputation for
single-handedly (and bare-handedly) taking out an entire Hunter broodship as
anything else.

But all the kung fu in the world wasn't going to work if Yan got it in his
head to tear her apart, and all three of them knew it. Yan was no Hunter, he
was a fellow deathworlder and _leagues_ stronger. He'd mellowed out, but there
was no suggestion that he'd got round to trusting them yet or even that he
ever would. If he decided to kill Xiu, then he would. Not _could;_ Would.

Xiu herself seemed much less concerned by this upset in the balance of power
than Allison was on her behalf. She and Julian were both used to the idea that
their diminutive Chinese girlfriend could leave them both winded and stunned
on the mat _at the same time,_ and for Yan to just swagger in and overturn
that dynamic simply by being huge and strong felt vaguely insulting.

Not that it mattered: Allison had a Mossberg 590 and whether the target was a
world-class martial artist or a stone age gorilla-critter from an alien
deathworld, an average Joe with a shotgun was gonna fuck them over fifteen
ways to Sunday. And Allison was no average Joe.

Fortunately, Yan seemed smart and knew the score. He mostly kept on the
periphery but he always watched intently.

There hadn't been so much as a sniffle among either the humans or the natives,
fortunately, which had forced Allison to reluctantly concede that maybe the
cross-species disease problem wasn't quite as scary as she'd feared. They were
still being vigilant, but they'd stepped down to green decon cycles with only
three of the intense decontamination cartridges left spare.

Good thing, too. She _knew_ Julian was sneaking food from Vemik when he
thought she wasn't looking, but she'd let it slide for the sake of peace.
Somehow that hadn't irked her as much as his increasingly "gone native"
habits, but…well. The tan that had been robbed from him by months of living in
a spaceship was reasserting itself, so she wasn't gonna complain about how he
was walking around shirtless a lot right now. _Definitely_ not.

Besides, going native had gone over well _with_ the natives. And Xiu had her
elf thing going on, which had the tribe treating her almost with the same
deference they showed the Singer. Both of them had got impressing the locals
down pat. Allison meanwhile had settled for maintaining a more aloof attitude:
she'd picked out her Oakleys on the grounds that the aliens probably had no
idea how to handle bright orange mirrored wraparounds.

A black sleeveless top completed the whole Sarah Connor look and was damn
welcome, because it was _unbearably_ humid in the fog between the trees. Not
hot, but any sweat she did produce stuck around _forever_ because there was
too much moisture in the air for it to go anywhere. She'd interrogated Xiu on
the secret to staying cool and ethereal under such conditions and Xiu had just
shrugged and said something about _'thinking cool and dry thoughts.'_

The natives seemed to have that problem licked--they mostly sweated through
their hair crests as far as Allison could tell. Those fluffy, kitten-soft furs
wrapped around a core of stiffer capillary hairs and drew the moisture and
heat away from the skin in a second.

As she passed the Singer, who was taking an afternoon nap in a low branch,
Allison took the opportunity to consider the young shaman's crest in closer
detail. It was noticeably redder than those of her female peers; almost as red
as a mature male's bright blaze hunter's orange in fact, while most of the
other women were more like a bright ginger or strawberry blonde. Julian had
mused about hormones and sexual dimorphism long enough to make Allison yawn
despite being genuinely interested.

It looked soft and strokable, too, but so far the natives were understandably
a bit too standoffish with her for her to have felt it first-hand. The
information on how soft those crests were came from Julian, who seemed to
enjoy being wrangled by Vemik during their play-fights and had reported that
the crest was as soft as dryer lint around those stiffer hairs.

She circled the clearing slowly and returned to where Xiu was meditating
beneath a tree. Xiu had taken to doing that after her language sessions with
Vemik to clear her head before she tackled the chore of recording as much
Peoplespeak as she could for posterity before English could pollute it and
destroy it via Vemik.

It was maybe part of the elf act, too. When Xiu got into character it took her
a while to return to just being herself.

"You okay?" Allison checked with her, as she patrolled past. Xiu opened her
eyes, smiled at her, and nodded.

"I like the way this forest smells," she said.

Allison had to agree. "Natural. Alive."

"Yup! And…quiet. It's funny to think that if we look up we won't see, like, an
airliner contrail or something." Xiu looked up through the canopy anyway, as
if daring the universe to prove her wrong.

"Or a satellite," Allison agreed. "Our surveysats are all way too small to
see."

"For now. When do they burn up?"

"About a week," Allison informed her. "And we run out of food two days later.
Unless you want to break open the bug crate."

"Ew, no. Which is why Julian needs to hurry up and finish his--"

They both looked up as Julian crashed into the camp in the precise opposite of
his usual stealthy style, with Vemik trying his arboreal best to keep up.
Allison straightened, Yan stiffened, and Xiu stood up.

"Julian? What's wrong, _bǎobei?"_

Julian sketched the absolute bare minimum level of respect to Yan that he
could get away with and jogged across the clearing.

"That volcano's active," he reported, keeping his voice low and urgent. "Are
the surveysats still up there?"

"Uh, yeah. Still got a week," Allison reassured him.

"We need to find a place for them away from the caldera. Now."

"Is…it really that bad?" Xiu asked. "I mean, people live near active volcanoes
on Earth…"

"Yeah, but there's nearly eight billion of us," Julian waved a hand. "If ten
thousand humans get killed in an eruption, that's a good day to own a news
channel. If ten thousand of these guys get killed then there goes the whole
species."

"Julian!" Xiu seemed a little taken aback, but Allison nodded.

"I mean, yeah. Hard-ass way to put it, but…"

"No, sorry…" Julian rubbed his face. "I'm just…If it was just the fucking
Hierarchy then that's a problem the fellas on Cimbrean can solve. Show up,
blow shit up, take the death robots…these guys don't have writing. A few
thousand years from now, the sky-people in their flying hut who fought the
demons are a quaint religion and I kinda doubt it'd matter much. But if Big
Hotel wanna make these guys go away, all they have to do is make that thing
pop its cork--" he jerked his thumb toward the volcano, "--and let mother
nature do the rest. We have GOT to get them away from it, and that's gonna
_matter."_

"What do you mean, 'matter?'" Allison asked.

"We can't move them. We're one tiny ship and just this one tribe is, what,
over fifty people? They've gotta move themselves. And they're not the only
tribe, 'cuz Vemet and I've already met _dozens_ out there while hunting,
Vemet's introduced me as the Sky-Hunter. They call _you_ the Sky-Dancer, Xiu.
Guess they saw you doing _taiji_ or somethin'."

"…What do they call me?" Allison asked, intrigued.

"They don't really know what to call you yet. But they're starting to talk
about us, and there's probably discontent…we've already done damage, and now
we've _gotta_ do more or they're all maybe going to be dead in a few years.
But we can't just conquer them and order them around, either."

Xiu nodded, seeing where he was going. "Somebody needs to persuade them to
migrate, and it can't be us. And the only language they're going to listen to
is if somebody knocks their heads together and makes them follow."

"Somebody like Yan," Allison glanced across at the chieftain.

Julian steeled himself and made a decision. In his best Peoplespeak, ["Yan!
Can we talk?"]

Yan eyed him carefully, stood up with his water skin and lumbered over
deliberately. It was hard to tell if he was intentionally swaggering or if
that was just how he moved, but he curled up his tail, sat down and offered a
neutral ["Yes?"]

["Can I speak in] English?"

That seemed to pique Yan's interest because he nodded, and to their surprise
he replied in English too. Clearly the big chieftain had been listening more
closely than he pretended. "Okay. Important?"

"…Yeah. _Very."_

"Vemik trust. He smart, I trust. Speak good words, he does." Yan's English was
halting and slow, but excellent considering that he'd never used it in earshot
of the three of them.

Julian tilted his head. "You keep your own counsel, don't you?"

Yan didn't reply.

["Sorry. You do your own thinking, on your own. That's good."]

Yan snarled in that weirdly friendly way he reserved for Julian. "You tell
story or not?"

Vemik settled in a branch above Yan--technically a subservient position in
their society, because it placed him behind the Given Man and under his
protection--and listened. The whole tribe was doing that, sensing that the
sky-people had suddenly become deadly serious about something. Only the Singer
settled at ground level alongside Yan, and the big man actually moved over to
make room for her.

Julian turned to Xiu. "Fill in for me if we get stuck?" Xiu nodded and fetched
her tablet, and they settled down to talk while Allison hung back.

Something was pricking at the back of her neck, and she wasn't sure what. It
wasn't just the tension with Julian, Xiu and the Tribe, they were all
engrossed as Julian launched into his halting best to try and explain exactly
what a volcano was and why living near one was a _really_ bad idea, supported
now and again by Xiu's ludicrously fluent grasp of the native language.

No, something else was wrong. Something that nobody else was paying attention
to.

She prowled away from the impromptu powwow and tried to do what Julian had
taught her how to do in Minnesota and _really_ listen to the forest around
her.

And she heard what was missing. The whole tribe jumped when she charged her
shotgun.

Julian gave her a confused stare. "…Al?"

"Birdsong." There wasn't any. The animal background noise of the forest had
gone completely hush.

_Everyone_ went silent at that single word. Clearly the Tribe had learned
English more widely and better than they had let on. After a tense several
heartbeats of listening, the whole tribe began to make stealthy preparations.
Up in the tree, Vemik readied his bow. Yan's huge fingers clawed a fist-sized
rock out of the soft earth for throwing, and Julian unfolded himself and
stood, readying his gauss rifle.

In the silence, there was a faint sound, one that didn't belong at all. A kind
of…mechanical whine, like a turbine spinning up for just a few seconds.

Vemik almost fell out of his tree. ["I know that sound!"] He blurted,
resorting to his native language. ["Death-bird!"]

The humans wasted a few seconds looking at each other bewildered before Xiu
realized what he meant. "Hierarchy drone!"

Allison gritted her teeth. "Back to the ship. Now."

Xiu took Julian's reluctant hand to drag him ship-wards, then stopped in her
tracks as a similar whine sounded from among the trees in that direction. Then
another from the south.

["They're all around us!"] The tribe shot up the trees like fireworks, making
shrill hooting alarm sounds. Yan remained on the ground, hefting his rock and
baring his fangs.

Everything became angles in Allison's head. Lines of fire, lines _not_ to
fire, places where allies were standing and how to move to safely shoot past
them. With one arm she shepherded Xiu to whatever protection the dead bulk of
the Abrogator could provide while Julian called for Vemet, leapt, and the
native man hauled him easily up into the low branches of a Ketta tree.Julian
was a decent climber, but Vemet was strong enough to practically _throw_ him
into the higher branches, where the pair of them settled and Julian scanned
the gauss rifle back and forth, searching for targets among the trees.

They'd all taken tactical training together back in Omaha, with…mixed but
largely positive results. Julian's persistent problem was that at heart he was
a varmint shooter: He took his time over every shot, made every round count,
and wasn't really mobile enough for tactical situations. By nature and
practice he was much more of a sniper. Xiu meanwhile had started out handling
guns like they might explode with every trigger pull and though she'd improved
with practice and was mobile enough, her strong and obvious distaste for
firearms shone through. They'd both scraped through the training, but…

But Allison had _aced_ it.

Her hand was barely back on the shotgun when the first Hierarchy scout drone
spun through the trees, flipping like a thrown playing card as it caught sight
of her and took evasive action.

Not quick enough. It was smashed by hurtling twelve-gauge buckshot.

Yan _howled_ and leapt like a salmon to clobber another drone as it swooped in
past him on an attack run. The goliath blow knocked it twisting out of its
path and it clattered harmlessly to the soil, still whining and trying to fly
but disabled.

More of those whining sounds among the trees, three flashes of metal. Angles
were wrong. Drop shoulder, bully sideways, turn, fire, spin into the cover of
a tree to guard her flank. The two surviving drones wrenched through
bewildering tight arcs to try and spoil her aim.

Feet under her, weight balanced, face ice-cold. Step. Advance. Fire. Missed.
Julian finally took a shot and winged one, though, and the damaged drone
glinted as it skipped behind a tree and vanished.

The undamaged one was circling like a wolf, using the Abrogator's hull to
cover itself. She couldn't shoot it, it couldn't shoot her. Harmless, just for
a second or two.

Long enough for her to turn at the waist, step back and obliterate the sixth
drone as it flashed out from between the trees. Then step, turn, step, kneel,
breathe, _wait--_

And fire. Buckshot slapped the circling-wolf drone out of existence the
_instant_ it came into view.

Silence. A long, _long_ tense one full of only the sound of the damaged drone
retreating until even that had finally faded below the level of hearing, and
the disabled one in the grass still trying to twitch back into the air.

Nobody dared move until the first chirp of some bird coming out of hiding
dispelled the silence.

Allison let out a long breath, and the world became a place of people and
things again, instead of angles and movement. She noticed in an aloof way as
her hands reloaded the shotgun on their own, but tried not to really think
about it--She was worried that if she noticed she _had_ a body then it might
start shaking and throwing up.

Julian, thank God, came bustling down the tree and rolled as he dropped the
last few feet. He touched her on the shoulder and somehow said _everything_
just by doing so, giving her the strength to shore up her composure and
pretend to be unaffected as Vemet jumped down and landed behind him, and the
two men both went on an immediate patrol of the area.

Yan…he had picked up the disabled drone in his mitts and walked over with it
like it wasn't any big deal. He grunted, and _crushed_ it into a squashed sort
of disc with visible effort, then slammed it on the ground with so much force
it embedded itself in the dirt.

Then he looked up at Allison, and nodded respectfully before he turned to
check on his tribe.

The Singer dropped down from the tree she had fled into during the attack and
gave Allison a long and thoughtful stare, then looked back at Vemik. She
thoughtfully scraped one of her stubby claw-nails across her teeth to excavate
the ketta sap from under it before nodding as she seemed to reach a decision.

"I think we call you…" She said something in Peoplespeak. The word-bit for
_'sky'_ was in there, but Allison didn't know the other bit, which gave her
something to focus on while she gave Xiu a hand up in crawling out from under
the Abrogator.

"What did she call me?"

"She called you _'Sky-Storm.'_" Xiu's elf act was gone, replaced by naked awe.
"And…I mean…that was just…Holy _shit,_ Al!"

"I feel like I'm gonna puke…" Allison confessed for her ears only. Around
them, the tribe was slowly coming back down the trees in ones and twos.

Xiu took her hand. It helped.

When the patrol came back, Yan grunted some commands to the men, then he
looked at Julian pointedly, returned to where they were sitting, and resumed
his position calmly like he hadn't just leaped clear over Allison's head and
hammered a goddamned drone out of the sky with a rock. Allison wondered if he
was feeling as shaky as she was and covering it better.

He inspected his hands and feet quickly, then said politely, "You tell story
more."

**Date Point 12y6m2w AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_The Entity_**

_&lt;Relief&gt;_

Humans. Humans who, quite clearly, had known what the Hierarchy was and had
_immediately_ opened fire. The Entity could not possibly have wished for a
more positive find from its scouting expeditions.

It could have wished for a more positive _outcome_ of course--the loss of five
scout drones stung--but this particular unknown had resolved itself well.

The surviving drone was damaged but stable as it swept wide in the direction
the two humans without the shotgun had tried to run. It didn't take long to
stumble across their ship, an unsubtle hammerhead of a thing in gleaming red
and silver livery and adorned with the logo of the Byron Group. Unarmed,
tiny…clearly a scout ship of some kind.

It allowed itself a rare spike of amusement when it saw the ship's name
painted above the airlock. _'Misfit.'_

As with all human systems, the ship was hardened and all but impenetrable to
outside access. The rigorous parity-checking, firewalls and checksums made
them all but impossible to infiltrate.

But they could be made to carry a message…

**Date Point 12y6m2w AV**  
**Uncharted Class 12 Deathworld, Near 3Kpc Arm**

**_Allison Buehler_**

It took several minutes before Julian finally sat down across from Yan again
to continue explaining… well, everything. The villagers had scattered, and
they took the time to ensure everybody was safe before the storytelling
resumed, this time with a nervous eye towards the sky.

"…okay. So." Julian cleared his throat. "The volcano. We good on that?"

"May go 'ksssh!'" Yan spread his arms wide to imitate the concept. "Like
[spitting-pond] in [high-forest-place] but **big.** Could kill all People.
Bad. Must move…far away. _All_ People move. All tribes. Yes?"

"Do you think the other tribes would move?" Julian asked.

Yan pondered that very carefully, and took a good, long swig of his water
skin.

["Jooyun Sky-Hunter, Shyow Sky-Dancer and Awisun Sky-Storm.] You, I believe.
Others…not see you. Not know." He said that last while aiming an especially
respectful eye at Allison and her weapon.

Julian gave Yan a very intense stare. "Yan…how big of a leader are you?"

That was a _ballsy_ thing to ask in front of his tribe like that. But Julian
had a point; there wasn't time to be diplomatic anymore. Yan seemed to
understand and even respect Julian for it.

"Am oldest [Given-Man] now in all [The People.] Crest dark." He gestured to
the tip of his tail--the tuft there was as turning as dark as wine or spilled
blood compared to the brilliant scarlet of the rest of his crest, a far cry
from Vemik's pale ginger and Vemet's blaze orange. "Not many live so long. Am
…[young-healthy-strong], live many [future-seasons] maybe. Am biggest, too."
He said that with his characteristically smug snarl.

Xiu had to translate that bit. Julian then asked, "Will they listen to you?"

Yan nodded after some thought, then added, "But would need…would break many
[Given-Men] to make listen. And women. Children. Very sad."

Well. _That_ was as candid an assessment as they'd ever get. The men and women
of the tribe nodded along too, grimly. They collectively seemed to sense they
had a _mission_ now and it seemed to Allison they were already steeling
themselves for it.

It wasn't often anyone got to see how wars started. Allison looked at Julian
uncertainly, knowing--or maybe hoping--in her head that they were doing the
right thing here, but there was a sick feeling settling in her stomach now
that had absolutely nothing to do with adrenaline and fear.

For her part, Xiu was unreadable. Her hair had come loose during the attack,
and from where she was sitting Allison couldn't see enough face past it to
read her expression even if she _was_ showing one.

"…We need to go," Julian said, having to force the words out in a grim croak
until he cleared his throat. "This attack, our supplies are running short…but
we will be back as fast as we can, and we'll bring friends."

"How long?"

"It may be a full season."

Yan thought about that, then looked at Vemet and the Singer. "Will move by
then. You find us?"

"Yes. You must move, and you must hide or be ready to hide. Big Enemy may wake
up. We can make something to help. And I need your help to make it, Yan.
Making this needs _strong_ men."

Allison snorted internally but kept her calm. _Boys._ Julian was shamelessly
playing to Yan's _literal_ strengths and Yan permitted him the flattery. ["The
People,] _strong!_" He thumped his chest impressively. ["Sky-Thinker] beat
you, I hear…" He said it with a surprisingly gentle, playful expression.

Julian chuckled softly and gave Vemik a fond look. "Yeah. He's got game."
There was a trill of laughter from among the men of the tribe--even if they
didn't understand his words, they knew his meaning perfectly. "But, this is
[big-craft-magic] we want to give you." Julian sobered back up. "I want to
teach you to make something. Something that will make it easier to lead the
People."

Yan sat forward. "What?"

Julian drew his knife and stroked the edge. "We call it…steel."

++END CHAPTER 35++

If you have enjoyed the story so far and want to support the author, you can
do so at patreon.com/HamboneHFY

This chapter was brought to you with the help of:

**_THE SOR_**  
_Those special individuals whose contributions go above and beyond mere money_

Ctwelve,

BitterBusiness,

Sally and Stephen Johnson.

Ellen Houston

**_Three Humans_**

SirNeonPancake

Savvz

Laga Mahesa

**_23 Deathworlders_**

Adam Turnbull, Andrew Ford, Aryeh Winter, Ben Thrussell, Daniel Morris, Dar,
Darryl Knight, Elliott Woods, Greg Tebbutt, Jamie Atkinson, Martin Østervang,

mudkip201,

Nader Ghali, Nicholas Enyeart, Nick Annunziata, Parker Brown, Patrick
Huizinga, Remi Harbo, Ryan Cadiz, Sun Rendered, tsant,

TTTA,

  
Volka…

